The Project Gutenberg eBook of Historical record of the Twenty-second, or
the Cheshire Regiment of Foot, by Richard Cannon

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Historical record of the Twenty-second, or the Cheshire Regiment
       of Foot
       containing an account of the formation of the regiment in 1689,
       and of its  subsequent services to 1849

Author: Richard Cannon

Release Date: February 17, 2021 [eBook #64581]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Brian Coe, John Campbell and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This book was
             produced from images made available by the HathiTrust Digital
             Library.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HISTORICAL RECORD OF THE
TWENTY-SECOND, OR THE CHESHIRE REGIMENT OF FOOT ***




  TRANSCRIBER'S NOTE

  Italic text is denoted by _underscores_.

  Footnote anchors are denoted by [number], and the footnotes have been
  placed at the end of each major section.

  A superscript is denoted by ^x or ^{xx}, for example S^t or Esq^{re}.

  Some minor changes to the text are noted at the end of the book.




[Illustration:

  BY COMMAND OF His late Majesty WILLIAM THE IV^{TH}.
  _and under the Patronage of_
  Her Majesty the Queen.

  HISTORICAL RECORDS,
  _OF THE_
  British Army

  _Comprising the_
  _History of every Regiment_
  _IN HER MAJESTY'S SERVICE_.

  _By Richard Cannon Esq^{re}._

  _Adjutant General's Office, Horse Guards._

  London.

  _Printed by Authority._]




  HISTORICAL RECORD

  OF

  THE TWENTY-SECOND,

  OR

  THE CHESHIRE REGIMENT OF FOOT.

  CONTAINING

  AN ACCOUNT OF THE FORMATION OF THE REGIMENT
  IN 1689,

  AND OF ITS SUBSEQUENT SERVICES
  TO 1849.

  COMPILED BY

  RICHARD CANNON, ESQ.,

  ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE, HORSE GUARDS.

  ILLUSTRATED WITH PLATES.

  LONDON:
  PARKER, FURNIVALL, & PARKER,
  30, CHARING-CROSS.

  MDCCCXLIX.




GENERAL ORDERS.


  _HORSE-GUARDS_,
  _1st January, 1836_.

His Majesty has been pleased to command that, with the view of doing
the fullest justice to Regiments, as well as to Individuals who have
distinguished themselves by their Bravery in Action with the Enemy,
an Account of the Services of every Regiment in the British Army
shall be published under the superintendence and direction of the
Adjutant-General; and that this Account shall contain the following
particulars, viz.:--

  ---- The Period and Circumstances of the Original Formation of
  the Regiment; The Stations at which it has been from time to time
  employed; The Battles, Sieges, and other Military Operations in
  which it has been engaged, particularly specifying any Achievement
  it may have performed, and the Colours, Trophies, &c., it may have
  captured from the Enemy.

  ---- The Names of the Officers, and the number of Non-Commissioned
  Officers and Privates Killed or Wounded by the Enemy, specifying
  the place and Date of the Action.

  ---- The Names of those Officers who, in consideration of their
  Gallant Services and Meritorious Conduct in Engagements with the
  Enemy, have been distinguished with Titles, Medals, or other Marks
  of His Majesty's gracious favour.

  ---- The Names of all such Officers, Non-Commissioned Officers, and
  Privates, as may have specially signalized themselves in Action.

  And,

  ---- The Badges and Devices which the Regiment may have been
  permitted to bear, and the Causes on account of which such Badges
  or Devices, or any other Marks of Distinction, have been granted.

  By Command of the Right Honorable
  GENERAL LORD HILL,
  _Commanding-in-Chief_.

  JOHN MACDONALD,
  _Adjutant-General_.




PREFACE.


The character and credit of the British Army must chiefly depend
upon the zeal and ardour by which all who enter into its service are
animated, and consequently it is of the highest importance that any
measure calculated to excite the spirit of emulation, by which alone
great and gallant actions are achieved, should be adopted.

Nothing can more fully tend to the accomplishment of this desirable
object than a full display of the noble deeds with which the Military
History of our country abounds. To hold forth these bright examples
to the imitation of the youthful soldier, and thus to incite him to
emulate the meritorious conduct of those who have preceded him in
their honorable career, are among the motives that have given rise to
the present publication.

The operations of the British Troops are, indeed, announced in the
"London Gazette," from whence they are transferred into the public
prints: the achievements of our armies are thus made known at the
time of their occurrence, and receive the tribute of praise and
admiration to which they are entitled. On extraordinary occasions,
the Houses of Parliament have been in the habit of conferring on the
Commanders, and the Officers and Troops acting under their orders,
expressions of approbation and of thanks for their skill and bravery;
and these testimonials, confirmed by the high honour of their
Sovereign's approbation, constitute the reward which the soldier most
highly prizes.

It has not, however, until late years, been the practice (which
appears to have long prevailed in some of the Continental armies)
for British Regiments to keep regular records of their services
and achievements. Hence some difficulty has been experienced in
obtaining, particularly from the old Regiments, an authentic account
of their origin and subsequent services.

This defect will now be remedied, in consequence of His Majesty
having been pleased to command that every Regiment shall, in future,
keep a full and ample record of its services at home and abroad.

From the materials thus collected, the country will henceforth
derive information as to the difficulties and privations which
chequer the career of those who embrace the military profession. In
Great Britain, where so large a number of persons are devoted to
the active concerns of agriculture, manufactures, and commerce, and
where these pursuits have, for so long a period, being undisturbed
by the _presence of war_, which few other countries have escaped,
comparatively little is known of the vicissitudes of active service
and of the casualties of climate, to which, even during peace, the
British Troops are exposed in every part of the globe, with little or
no interval of repose.

In their tranquil enjoyment of the blessings which the country
derives from the industry and the enterprise of the agriculturist
and the trader, its happy inhabitants may be supposed not often to
reflect on the perilous duties of the soldier and the sailor,--on
their sufferings,--and on the sacrifice of valuable life, by which so
many national benefits are obtained and preserved.

The conduct of the British Troops, their valour, and endurance,
have shone conspicuously under great and trying difficulties; and
their character has been established in Continental warfare by the
irresistible spirit with which they have effected debarkations in
spite of the most formidable opposition, and by the gallantry and
steadiness with which they have maintained their advantages against
superior numbers.

In the official Reports made by the respective Commanders, ample
justice has generally been done to the gallant exertions of the
Corps employed; but the details of their services and of acts of
individual bravery can only be fully given in the Annals of the
various Regiments.

These Records are now preparing for publication, under his Majesty's
special authority, by Mr. RICHARD CANNON, Principal Clerk of the
Adjutant General's Office; and while the perusal of them cannot fail
to be useful and interesting to military men of every rank, it is
considered that they will also afford entertainment and information
to the general reader, particularly to those who may have served in
the Army, or who have relatives in the Service.

There exists in the breasts of most of those who have served, or
are serving, in the Army, an _Esprit de Corps_--an attachment to
everything belonging to their Regiment; to such persons a narrative
of the services of their own Corps cannot fail to prove interesting.
Authentic accounts of the actions of the great, the valiant, the
loyal, have always been of paramount interest with a brave and
civilized people. Great Britain has produced a race of heroes who,
in moments of danger and terror, have stood "firm as the rocks
of their native shore:" and when half the world has been arrayed
against them, they have fought the battles of their Country with
unshaken fortitude. It is presumed that a record of achievements in
war,--victories so complete and surprising, gained by our countrymen,
our brothers, our fellow citizens in arms,--a record which revives
the memory of the brave, and brings their gallant deeds before
us,--will certainly prove acceptable to the public.

Biographical Memoirs of the Colonels and other distinguished Officers
will be introduced in the Records of their respective Regiments,
and the Honorary Distinctions which have, from time to time, been
conferred upon each Regiment, as testifying the value and importance
of its services, will be faithfully set forth.

As a convenient mode of Publication, the Record of each Regiment will
be printed in a distinct number, so that when the whole shall be
completed, the Parts may be bound up in numerical succession.




INTRODUCTION

TO

THE INFANTRY.


The natives of Britain have, at all periods, been celebrated for
innate courage and unshaken firmness, and the national superiority
of the British troops over those of other countries has been evinced
in the midst of the most imminent perils. History contains so
many proofs of extraordinary acts of bravery, that no doubts can
be raised upon the facts which are recorded. It must therefore be
admitted, that the distinguishing feature of the British soldier is
INTREPIDITY. This quality was evinced by the inhabitants of England
when their country was invaded by Julius Cæsar with a Roman army,
on which occasion the undaunted Britons rushed into the sea to
attack the Roman soldiers as they descended from their ships; and,
although their discipline and arms were inferior to those of their
adversaries, yet their fierce and dauntless bearing intimidated the
flower of the Roman troops, including Cæsar's favourite tenth legion.
Their arms consisted of spears, short swords, and other weapons of
rude construction. They had chariots, to the axles of which were
fastened sharp pieces of iron resembling scythe-blades, and infantry
in long chariots resembling waggons, who alighted and fought on
foot, and for change of ground, pursuit or retreat, sprang into the
chariot and drove off with the speed of cavalry. These inventions
were, however, unavailing against Cæsar's legions: in the course
of time a military system, with discipline and subordination, was
introduced, and British courage, being thus regulated, was exerted to
the greatest advantage; a full development of the national character
followed, and it shone forth in all its native brilliancy.

The military force of the Anglo Saxons consisted principally of
infantry: Thanes, and other men of property, however, fought on
horseback. The infantry were of two classes, heavy and light. The
former carried large shields armed with spikes, long broad swords and
spears; and the latter were armed with swords or spears only. They
had also men armed with clubs, others with battle-axes and javelins.

The feudal troops established by William the Conqueror consisted (as
already stated in the Introduction to the Cavalry) almost entirely
of horse; but when the warlike barons and knights, with their trains
of tenants and vassals, took the field, a proportion of men appeared
on foot, and, although these were of inferior degree, they proved
stout-hearted Britons of stanch fidelity. When stipendiary troops
were employed, infantry always constituted a considerable portion of
the military force; and this _arme_ has since acquired, in every
quarter of the globe, a celebrity never exceeded by the armies of any
nation at any period.

The weapons carried by the infantry, during the several reigns
succeeding the Conquest, were bows and arrows, half-pikes, lances,
halberds, various kinds of battle-axes, swords, and daggers. Armour
was worn on the head and body, and in course of time the practice
became general for military men to be so completely cased in steel,
that it was almost impossible to slay them.

The introduction of the use of gunpowder in the destructive purposes
of war, in the early part of the fourteenth century, produced a
change in the arms and equipment of the infantry-soldier. Bows and
arrows gave place to various kinds of fire-arms, but British archers
continued formidable adversaries; and, owing to the inconvenient
construction and imperfect bore of the fire-arms when first
introduced, a body of men, well trained in the use of the bow from
their youth, was considered a valuable acquisition to every army,
even as late as the sixteenth century.

During a great part of the reign of Queen Elizabeth each company
of infantry usually consisted of men armed five different ways; in
every hundred men forty were "_men-at-arms_," and sixty "_shot_;" the
"men-at-arms" were ten halberdiers, or battle-axe men, and thirty
pikemen; and the "shot" were twenty archers, twenty musketeers, and
twenty harquebusiers, and each man carried, besides his principal
weapon, a sword and dagger.

Companies of infantry varied at this period in numbers from 150
to 300 men; each company had a colour or ensign, and the mode of
formation recommended by an English military writer (Sir John Smithe)
in 1590 was:--the colour in the centre of the company guarded by the
halberdiers; the pikemen in equal proportions, on each flank of the
halberdiers; half the musketeers on each flank of the pikes; half
the archers on each flank of the musketeers, and the harquebusiers
(whose arms were much lighter than the muskets then in use) in equal
proportions on each flank of the company for skirmishing.[1] It
was customary to unite a number of companies into one body, called
a REGIMENT, which frequently amounted to three thousand men: but
each company continued to carry a colour. Numerous improvements
were eventually introduced in the construction of fire-arms, and,
it having been found impossible to make armour proof against the
muskets then in use (which carried a very heavy ball) without its
being too weighty for the soldier, armour was gradually laid aside by
the infantry in the seventeenth century: bows and arrows also fell
into disuse, and the infantry were reduced to two classes, viz.:
_musketeers_, armed with matchlock muskets, swords, and daggers; and
_pikemen_, armed with pikes from fourteen to eighteen feet long, and
swords.

In the early part of the seventeenth century Gustavus Adolphus, King
of Sweden, reduced the strength of regiments to 1000 men. He caused
the gunpowder, which had heretofore been carried in flasks, or in
small wooden bandoliers, each containing a charge, to be made up
into cartridges, and carried in pouches; and he formed each regiment
into two wings of musketeers, and a centre division of pikemen. He
also adopted the practice of forming four regiments into a brigade;
and the number of colours was afterwards reduced to three in each
regiment. He formed his columns so compactly that his infantry could
resist the charge of the celebrated Polish horsemen and Austrian
cuirassiers; and his armies became the admiration of other nations.
His mode of formation was copied by the English, French, and other
European states; but so great was the prejudice in favour of ancient
customs, that all his improvements were not adopted until near a
century afterwards.

In 1664 King Charles II. raised a corps for sea-service, styled the
Admiral's regiment. In 1678 each company of 100 men usually consisted
of 30 pikemen, 60 musketeers, and 10 men armed with light firelocks.
In this year the King added a company of men armed with hand grenades
to each of the old British regiments, which was designated the
"grenadier company." Daggers were so contrived as to fit in the
muzzles of the muskets, and bayonets similar to those at present in
use were adopted about twenty years afterwards.

An Ordnance regiment was raised in 1685, by order of King James II.,
to guard the artillery, and was designated the Royal Fusiliers (now
7th Foot). This corps, and the companies of grenadiers, did not carry
pikes.

King William III. incorporated the Admiral's regiment in the second
Foot Guards, and raised two Marine regiments for sea-service.
During the war in this reign, each company of infantry (excepting
the fusiliers and grenadiers) consisted of 14 pikemen and 46
musketeers; the captains carried pikes; lieutenants, partisans;
ensigns, half-pikes; and serjeants, halberds. After the peace in 1697
the Marine regiments were disbanded, but were again formed on the
breaking out of the war in 1702.[2]

During the reign of Queen Anne the pikes were laid aside, and every
infantry soldier was armed with a musket, bayonet, and sword; the
grenadiers ceased, about the same period, to carry hand grenades;
and the regiments were directed to lay aside their third colour: the
corps of Royal Artillery was first added to the Army in this reign.

About the year 1745, the men of the battalion companies of infantry
ceased to carry swords; during the reign of George II. light
companies were added to infantry regiments; and in 1764 a Board of
General Officers recommended that the grenadiers should lay aside
their swords, as that weapon had never been used during the Seven
Years' War. Since that period the arms of the infantry soldier have
been limited to the musket and bayonet.

The arms and equipment of the British Troops have seldom differed
materially, since the Conquest, from those of other European states;
and in some respects the arming has, at certain periods, been allowed
to be inferior to that of the nations with whom they have had to
contend; yet, under this disadvantage, the bravery and superiority of
the British infantry have been evinced on very many and most trying
occasions, and splendid victories have been gained over very superior
numbers.

Great Britain has produced a race of lion-like champions who have
dared to confront a host of foes, and have proved themselves valiant
with any arms. At _Crecy_, King Edward III., at the head of about
30,000 men, defeated, on the 26th of August, 1346, Philip King of
France, whose army is said to have amounted to 100,000 men; here
British valour encountered veterans of renown:--the King of Bohemia,
the King of Majorca, and many princes and nobles were slain, and
the French army was routed and cut to pieces. Ten years afterwards,
Edward Prince of Wales, who was designated the Black Prince,
defeated, at _Poictiers_, with 14,000 men, a French army of 60,000
horse, besides infantry, and took John I., King of France, and his
son Philip, prisoners. On the 25th of October, 1415, King Henry
V., with an army of about 13,000 men, although greatly exhausted by
marches, privations, and sickness, defeated, at _Agincourt_, the
Constable of France, at the head of the flower of the French nobility
and an army said to amount to 60,000 men, and gained a complete
victory.

During the seventy years' war between the United Provinces of the
Netherlands and the Spanish monarchy, which commenced in 1578 and
terminated in 1648, the British infantry in the service of the
States-General were celebrated for their unconquerable spirit and
firmness;[3] and in the thirty years' war between the Protestant
Princes and the Emperor of Germany, the British Troops in the
service of Sweden and other states were celebrated for deeds of
heroism.[4] In the wars of Queen Anne, the fame of the British army
under the great MARLBOROUGH was spread throughout the world; and
if we glance at the achievements performed within the memory of
persons now living, there is abundant proof that the Britons of the
present age are not inferior to their ancestors in the qualities
which constitute good soldiers. Witness the deeds of the brave men,
of whom there are many now surviving, who fought in Egypt in 1801,
under the brave Abercromby, and compelled the French army, which had
been vainly styled _Invincible_, to evacuate that country; also the
services of the gallant Troops during the arduous campaigns in the
Peninsula, under the immortal WELLINGTON; and the determined stand
made by British Army at Waterloo, where Napoleon Bonaparte, who had
long been the inveterate enemy of Great Britain, and had sought and
planned her destruction by every means he could devise, was compelled
to leave his vanquished legions to their fate, and to place himself
at the disposal of the British Government These achievements, with
others of recent dates in the distant climes of India, prove that the
same valour and constancy which glowed in the breasts of the heroes
of Crecy, Poictiers, Agincourt, Blenheim, and Ramilies, continue to
animate the Britons of the nineteenth century.

The British Soldier is distinguished for a robust and muscular
frame,--intrepidity which no danger can appal,--unconquerable
spirit and resolution,--patience in fatigue and privation, and
cheerful obedience to his superiors. These qualities, united with
an excellent system of order and discipline to regulate and give
a skilful direction to the energies and adventurous spirit of the
hero, and a wise selection of officers of superior talent to command,
whose presence inspires confidence,--have been the leading causes
of the splendid victories gained by the British arms.[5] The fame
of the deeds of the past and present generations in the various
battle-fields where the robust sons of Albion have fought and
conquered, surrounds the British arms with a halo of glory; these
achievements will live in the page of history to the end of time.

The records of the several regiments will be found to contain a
detail of facts of an interesting character, connected with the
hardships, sufferings, and gallant exploits of British soldiers in
the various parts of the world, where the calls of their Country and
the commands of their Sovereign have required them to proceed in the
execution of their duty, whether in active continental operations,
or in maintaining colonial territories in distant and unfavourable
climes.

The superiority of the British infantry has been pre-eminently set
forth in the wars of six centuries, and admitted by the greatest
commanders which Europe has produced. The formations and movements of
this _arme_, as at present practised, while they are adapted to every
species of warfare, and to all probable situations and circumstances
of service, are calculated to show forth the brilliancy of military
tactics calculated upon mathematical and scientific principles.
Although the movements and evolutions have been copied from the
continental armies, yet various improvements have from time to time
been introduced, to insure that simplicity and celerity by which the
superiority of the national military character is maintained. The
rank and influence which Great Britain has attained among the nations
of the world, have in a great measure been purchased by the valour
of the Army, and to persons who have the welfare of their country
at heart, the records of the several regiments cannot fail to prove
interesting.


FOOTNOTES:

[1] A company of 200 men would appear thus:--

                                 __|
                                |  |
                                |__|
                                   |
       20     20     20     30    2|0     30     20     20     20
                                   |
  Harquebuses.    Muskets.      Halberds.      Muskets.    Harquebuses.
           Archers.       Pikes.         Pikes.       Archers.

The musket carried a ball which weighed 1/10th of a pound; and the
harquebus a ball which weighed 1/25th of a pound.

[2] The 30th, 31st, and 32nd Regiments were formed as Marine corps
in 1702, and were employed as such during the wars in the reign of
Queen Anne. The Marine corps were embarked in the Fleet under Admiral
Sir George Rooke, and were at the taking of Gibraltar, and in its
subsequent defence in 1704; they were afterwards employed at the
siege of Barcelona in 1705.

[3] The brave Sir Roger Williams, in his Discourse on War, printed
in 1590, observes:--"I persuade myself ten thousand of our nation
would beat thirty thousand of theirs (the Spaniards) out of the
field, let them be chosen where they list." Yet at this time the
Spanish infantry was allowed to be the best disciplined in Europe.
For instances of valour displayed by the British Infantry during the
Seventy Years' War, see the Historical Record of the Third Foot, or
Buffs.

[4] _Vide_ the Historical Record of the First, or Royal Regiment of
Foot.

[5] "Under the blessing of Divine Providence, His Majesty ascribes
the successes which have attended the exertions of his troops in
Egypt to that determined bravery which is inherent in Britons; but
His Majesty desires it may be most solemnly and forcibly impressed
on the consideration of every part of the army, that it has been a
strict observance of order, discipline, and military system, which
has given the full energy to the native valour of the troops, and
has enabled them proudly to assert the superiority of the national
military character, in situations uncommonly arduous, and under
circumstances of peculiar difficulty."--_General Orders in 1801._

In the General Orders issued by Lieut.-General Sir John Hope
(afterwards Lord Hopetoun), congratulating the army upon the
successful result of the Battle of Corunna, on the 16th of January,
1809, it is stated:--"On no occasion has the undaunted valour of
British troops ever been more manifest. At the termination of a
severe and harassing march, rendered necessary by the superiority
which the enemy had acquired, and which had materially impaired the
efficiency of the troops, many disadvantages were to be encountered.
These have all been surmounted by the conduct of the troops
themselves; and the enemy has been taught, that whatever advantages
of position or of numbers he may possess, there is inherent in
the British officers and soldiers a bravery that knows not how to
yield,--that no circumstances can appal,--and that will ensure
victory, when it is to be obtained by the exertion of any human
means."




  THE TWENTY-SECOND,

  OR

  THE CHESHIRE REGIMENT OF FOOT,

  BEARS ON THE REGIMENTAL COLOUR

  THE WORDS

  "SCINDE," "MEEANEE," AND "HYDERABAD,"

  IN COMMEMORATION OF ITS DISTINGUISHED GALLANTRY
  IN THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE AMEERS OF SCINDE,
  DURING THE EARLY PART OF THE YEAR 1843;

  AND PARTICULARLY IN THE TWO DECISIVE BATTLES

  OF MEEANEE AND HYDERABAD,

  FOUGHT AT THOSE PLACES, RESPECTIVELY,
  ON THE 17th OF FEBRUARY, AND ON THE 24th OF MARCH, 1843.




THE TWENTY-SECOND,

OR

THE CHESHIRE REGIMENT OF FOOT.




CONTENTS

OF THE

HISTORICAL RECORD.


  YEAR                                                           PAGE

        INTRODUCTION.

  1689  Formation of the Regiment                                   1

  ----  Henry, Duke of Norfolk appointed to the Colonelcy           -

  ----  Numbered the Twenty-Second Regiment                         -

  ----  Stationed at Chester                                        -

  ----  Embarked for Ireland                                        -

  ----  Engaged at the siege of Carrickfergus                       2

  ----  Marched to Dundalk, and thence to Armagh                    -

  ----  Sir Henry Bellasis, from the Sixth Regiment,
          appointed to the Colonelcy, in succession to
          the Duke of Norfolk                                       -

  1690  Engaged at the _Battle of the Boyne_                        -

  ----  Reviewed by King William at _Finglass_                      -

  ----  Advanced against Athlone                                    -

  ----  Rejoined the Army                                           -

  ----  Employed at the first siege of Limerick                     -

  ----  Proceeded into winter-quarters                              -

  ----  Engaged with the Rapparees                                  -

  1691  Proceeded with the Army against _Ballymore_                 3

  1691  Engaged in the Siege and Capture of _Athlone_               3

  ----  Engaged at the Battle of _Aghrim_                           -

  ----  Engaged at the Capture of _Galway_                          -

  ----  ------------------------  _Limerick_                        4

  ----  Termination of the War in Ireland                           -

  1695  Proceeded to join the Army in Flanders                      -

  1696  Returned to England                                         -

  1697  Treaty of Peace concluded at _Ryswick_                      -

  1698  Re-embarked for Ireland                                     5

  1701  Appointment of Brigadier-General William
          Selwyn, by exchange, from the Second Foot,
          with Lieut.-General Sir Henry Bellasis                    -

  1702  Accession of Queen Anne on the demise of King
          William III                                               -

  ----  Regiment embarked for Jamaica                               -

  ----  Promotion of Lieut.-Colonel Thomas Handasyd
          to the Colonelcy, in succession to Major-General
          Selwyn, deceased                                          -

  1705  Establishment augmented by two companies                    -

  1712  Promotion of Lieut.-Colonel Roger Handasyd to
          the Colonelcy, in succession to his Father,
          Major-General Thomas Handasyd, retired                    6

  1713  Treaty of Peace concluded at Utrecht                        -

  1714  Regiment returned to England, leaving two
          Independent Companies at Jamaica                          -

  1715  Employed in recruiting its Establishment                    -

  1718  Embarked for _Ireland_                                      -

  1726  ------------ _Minorca_                                      -

  1727  Detachment embarked for _Gibraltar_ to assist in
          its Defence against the Spaniards                         -

  1730  Appointment of Colonel William Barrel, from
          the Twenty-Eighth Regiment, to the Colonelcy,
          in succession to Colonel Roger Handasyd,
          removed to the Sixteenth Regiment                         -

  1734  Appointment of Colonel Hon. James St. Clair to
          the Colonelcy, in succession to Colonel William
          Barrell, removed to the Fourth Foot                       7

  1737  Appointment of Major-General John Moyle,
          from the Thirty-Sixth Regiment, to the Colonelcy,
          in succession to Colonel Hon. James
          St. Clair, removed to the First, or Royal Regiment
          of Foot                                                   -

  1738  Promotion of Colonel Thomas Paget to the
          Colonelcy, in succession to Major-General
          Moyle, deceased                                           -

  1741  Promotion of Lieut.-Colonel Richard O'Farrell,
          from the Ninth Regiment, to the Colonelcy, in
          succession to Colonel Paget, deceased                     -

  1748  Treaty of Peace concluded at Aix-la-Chapelle                -

  1749  Regiment relieved at Minorca and proceeded to
           Ireland                                                  -

  1751  Royal Warrant, dated 1st July, issued for regulating
          the Clothing, Colours, Numbers,
          Facings, Badges, Mottos, and Distinctions of
          the Regiments of Cavalry and Infantry                     -

  1756  War declared against France                                 -

  ----  Regiment embarked from Ireland for North America            -

  1757  Promotion of Lieut.-Colonel Edward Whitmore
          from the Thirty-Sixth Regiment to the Colonelcy,
          in succession to Major-General
          O'Farrell, deceased                                       8

  1758  Engaged in the siege of _Louisburg_, and the
          Capture of the Island of _Cape Breton_                    -

  1759  The Grenadier Company, incorporated with the
          Louisburg Grenadiers,--Engaged at the Battle
          of Quebec                                                 9

  1760  Embarked from Louisburg, proceeded to
          _Quebec_, and advanced to _Montreal_                      -

  ----  Engaged in the conquest of the Canadas                      -

  1761  Proceeded to New York, and embarked for the
          _West Indies_                                             9

  ----  Engaged in the capture of the Island of _Dominica_         10

  1762  Engaged in the Capture of _Martinique_, _Grenada_,
          _St. Lucia_, and _St. Vincent_                           --

  ----  Embarked with the expedition against the
          _Havannah_                                               --

  ----  Storming and Capture of _Fort Moro_                        11

  ----  Appointment of Major-General Honorable
          Thomas Gage to the Colonelcy, in succession
          to Major-General Whitmore, drowned at sea                --

  1763  Treaty of Peace concluded at Fontainebleau                 --

  ----  The Havannah restored to Spain, in exchange
          for the Province of Florida, in South America            --

  ----  Regiment proceeded to West Florida                         --

  1765  Embarked for Great Britain                                 --

  1773  Proceeded to Ireland                                       --

  1775  Embarked for North America                                 12

  ----  Engaged at the Battle of Bunker's Hill                     --

  1776  Quitted Boston, and proceeded to Nova Scotia               --

  ----  Embarked for Staten Island, near New York                  --

  ----  Landed on Long Island, and engaged with the
          Americans at Brooklyn                                    --

  ----  Gained possession of New York, captured Fort
          Washington, and reduced part of the Jerseys              13

  ----  Detached with other Corps and captured Rhode
          Island                                                   --

  1778  The King of France having united with the
          Americans, made preparations for the re-capture
          of Rhode Island, but was compelled
          to abandon the siege                                     14

  1779  The British Commander-in-Chief resolved to
          vacate Rhode Island; the Regiment proceeded
          to New York                                              15

  1782  Appointment of Major-General Charles O'Hara to the
          Colonelcy, in succession to General the Honorable
          Thomas Gage, removed to the Seventeenth Light Dragoons   15

  ----  Regiment received instructions to assume the title of
          _the Twenty-Second_, or _the Cheshire Regiment_          --

  1783  The American War having terminated, the regiment
          embarked for England                                     --

  1785  Regiment stationed at Windsor and furnished the Guards
          at the Castle                                            --

  ----  King George the III. authorized an _Order of Merit_ to
          be instituted in the corps                               --

  1787  Proceeded to Jersey and Guernsey, and thence to
          Portsmouth                                               16

  1788  Proceeded to Chatham and Dover                             --

  1790  Embarked for Ireland                                       --

  1791  Appointment of Major-General David Dundas to the
          Colonelcy, in succession to Major-General O'Hara,
          removed to the Seventy-Fourth Highlanders                17

  1793  War commenced between Great Britain and France             --

  ----  Regiment embarked for the West Indies                      --

  1794  Capture of the Island of Martinique                        --

  ----  ---- ---- St. Lucia                                        --

  ----  ---- ---- Guadaloupe                                       --

  ----  ---- ---- St. Domingo                                      --

  1795  Returned to England from St. Domingo                       18

  ----  Appointment of Major-General William Crosbie, from the
          Eighty-Ninth Regiment, to the Colonelcy, in succession
          to Lieut.-General Dundas, removed to the Seventh Light
          Dragoons                                                 --

  1798  Proceeded to Guernsey                                      --

  1798  Appointment of Major-General John G. Simcoe, from the
          Eighty-First Regiment, to the Colonelcy, in succession
          to Major-General Crosbie, deceased                       18

  1799  Removed to Portsmouth                                      19

  ----  Authorized to enlist boys or lads with a view to being
          sent to the Cape of Good Hope, preparatory to being
          embarked for service in the East Indies                  --

  1800  Embarked for the Cape of Good Hope                         --

  1802  Proceeded to India                                         20

  1803  Arrival at Calcutta                                        --

  ----  The flank companies embarked, and joined the field force
          assembled for the attack of the province of Cuttack      --

  ----  Flank Companies engaged at the Capture of the fort of
          Barrabatta by storm                                      --

  1804  Joined the army under Lord Lake and engaged in the siege
          of Bhurtpore                                             21

  1805  Marched from _Fort William_ and encamped at _Benares_,
          thence proceeded to _Cawnpore_                           --

  ----  Siege of Bhurtpore continued, and the Flank Companies
          distinguished themselves in three unsuccessful attacks   --

  ----  _Rajah Sing_ submitted and concluded a treaty of peace     22

  ----  British army withdrew from Bhurtpore                       --

  ----  The Flank Companies rejoined the regiment at Cawnpore      --

  ----  _Holkar_ and _Scindia_ concluded Treaties of Peace         --

  1806  Marched from the banks of the Sutlej to _Delhi_            --

  ----  Removed to Muttra, and received the thanks of the
          Governor-General in Council and of General Lord Lake,
          Commander-in-Chief, for its conduct during the war       --

  1806  Appointment of Lieut.-General Sir James Henry Craig,
          K. B., in succession to General Simcoe, deceased         22

  1807  Proceeded to Berhampore                                    --

  1809  Appointment of Major-General the Honorable Edward Finch
          to the Colonelcy, in succession to General Sir James
          Henry Craig, removed to the Seventy-eighth Highlanders   --

  1810  Embarked at Fort William, and formed part of the
          expedition against the Mauritius                         --

  ----  Engaged in the capture of the Mauritius                    23

  1811  Detachment employed at Tamatave in the Island of
          Madagascar                                               --

  1812  Proceeded to Bourbon                                       --

  1813  Removed a second time to the Mauritius                     --

  1814  A second Battalion added to the establishment of the
          regiment, which was reduced in the same year             --

  1815  The Flank Companies rejoined the regiment at the
          Mauritius from Hindoostan                                24

  1819  Embarked for England from the Mauritius                    --

  ----  Landed at Gosport and marched to Northampton               25

  1821  Marched to Liverpool and embarked for Ireland              --

  1822  Detachment proceeded against a body of armed men
          assembled at Newmarket in county of Cork. The officers
          commanding this detachment received the thanks of
          H. R. H. the Duke of York, and were presented with a
          silver cup by the gentlemen and inhabitants of the
          Town of Newmarket, for attacking and defeating this
          body of insurgents                                       --

  1826  Formed into six Service and four Depôt Companies
          preparatory to embarkation for foreign service           26

  ----  Service Companies embarked for Jamaica                     --

  1830  Depôt Companies embarked for England                       27

  1831  Service Companies employed in suppressing an
          insurrection among the slaves in Jamaica                 --

  1836  Depôt Companies embarked for Ireland                       --

  1837  Service Companies embarked from Jamaica for Ireland,
          and rejoined by the Depôt Companies                      --

  1840  Embarked from Ireland for England                          --

  1841  Embarked for Bombay and proceeded to Poonah                28

  1842  Proceeded to _Scinde_, and encamped at Kurrachee           --

  1843  Employed in the destruction of the Fort of _Emaum Ghur_    --

  ----  The march through the Desert to Emaum Ghur, as described
          by Major-General William E. P. Napier                    29

  ----  The troops returned triumphant to Peer-Abu-Bekr            30

  ----  Treaty of Peace with the Ameers of Scinde                  --

  ----  Treacherous attack upon the British residency at
          _Hyderabad_, and gallant defence made by the _Light
          Company_ of the _Twenty-Second_ regiment                 --

  ----  Light Company joined the army under Major-General Sir
          Charles Napier                                           31

  ----  Battle of Meeanee                                          --

  ----  Surrender of six Ameers on the field of battle             --

  ----  British Colours planted on the Fortress of Hyderabad       32

  ----  Details of the defeat of the Beloochees at Meeanee         --

  ----  Gallant conduct of the Twenty-Second regiment              34

  ----  Threatened attack by Mere Shere Mahomed                    36

  ----  Battle of Hyderabad                                        --

  ----  Flight of Mere Shere Mahomed to the desert                 37

  ----  Particulars of the march of the British troops through
          the desert                                               --

  1843  Honors and distinctions conferred by Queen Victoria, and
          by the British Parliament, on the Twenty-second
          regiment for its conduct in the Campaign of Scinde       38

  ----  Address of Major-General Sir Charles Napier to the troops
          in distributing the medals conferred on them for their
          gallantry in this campaign                               40

  ----  Marched from Hyderabad to Kurrachee                        42

  ----  Directed to proceed to Bombay, and Major-General Sir
          Charles Napier's order on the occasion                   43

  ----  Embarked for Bombay                                        --

  ----  Honorable reception of the Regiment at Bombay              --

  ----  Appointment of Major-General Sir Charles Napier to the
          Colonelcy, in succession to General Honorable E. Finch,
          deceased                                                 44

  1844  Employed on field-service in the Kolapore districts        --

  ----  Capture of Forts _Punalla_ and _Pownghur_                  --

  ----  Operations in the Sawunt-Warree district                   45

  ----  Investments of the Forts of Monuhurr and Monsentosh        --

  1845  Capture of the village of Seevapore and other Forts        --

  ----  Returned to Poonah                                         --

  1846  Marched to Bombay                                          46

  1847  Removed to Poonah                                          --

  1849  Proceeded to Bombay                                        --

  ----  Conclusion                                                 --


        Description of the Standards captured at the battles of
          Meeanee and Hyderabad, and of the Medal conferred in
          honor of the victories obtained at those places          47




SUCCESSION OF COLONELS

OF

THE TWENTY-SECOND,

OR

THE CHESHIRE REGIMENT OF FOOT.


  YEAR                                                  PAGE

  1689  Henry Duke of Norfolk                             48

  ----  Sir Henry Bellasis, Kt.                           49

  1701  William Selwyn                                    51

  1702  Thomas Handasyd                                   --

  1712  Roger Handasyd                                    52

  1730  William Barrell                                   --

  1734  _Hon._ James St. Clair                            --

  1737  John Moyle                                        53

  1738  Thomas Paget                                      54

  1741  Richard O'Farrell                                 --

  1757  Edward Whitmore                                   --

  1762  _Hon._ Thomas Gage                                55

  1782  Charles O'Hara                                    56

  1791  David Dundas                                      57

  1795  William Crosbie                                   59

  1798  John Graves Simcoe                                60

  1806  Sir James Henry Craig, K.B.                       61

  1809  _Hon._ Edward Finch                               62

  1843  Sir Charles James Napier, G.C.B.                  63


PLATES.

  Colours of the Regiment                      _to face_   1

  Costume of the Regiment                                 32

  Engraving of the Beloochee Standard captured at the
    Battle of Meeanee in 1843; and of the Silver
    Medal conferred on the Officers and Men engaged
    in the Battles of Meeanee and Hyderabad               47


[Illustration: TWENTY-SECOND REGIMENT.

QUEEN'S COLOUR.

REGIMENTAL COLOUR.

FOR CANNON'S MILITARY RECORDS.

_Madeley lith. 3 Wellington S^t. Strand_]




HISTORICAL RECORD

OF

THE TWENTY-SECOND,

OR

THE CHESHIRE REGIMENT OF FOOT.


[Sidenote: 1689]

The accession of King William III. and Queen Mary, in February,
1689, was welcomed in England with anticipations of security to the
civil and religious institutions of the country, and of prosperity
in every branch of national industry; but in Ireland the majority
of the people adhered to the interests of the Stuart dynasty, and a
body of troops was raised in England, for the deliverance of that
country from the power of King James, who had landed there with
an armament from France. On this occasion HENRY, DUKE OF NORFOLK,
evinced zeal for the principles of the Revolution, and raised a
regiment of pikemen and musketeers, to which a company of grenadiers
was attached; and the corps raised under the auspices of his Grace
now bears the title of the TWENTY-SECOND, or the CHESHIRE REGIMENT OF
FOOT.

Having been speedily completed in numbers, equipped, and disciplined,
the regiment was encamped near Chester in the early part of August,
and soon afterwards embarked for Ireland, with the forces commanded
by Marshal Duke Schomberg. On landing in Ireland, the siege of
_Carrickfergus_ was commenced, and the garrison of that fortress was
forced to surrender in a few days.

From Carrickfergus, the regiment marched with the army to Dundalk,
where the troops were encamped on low and wet ground, and suffered
much in their health.

While the regiment was encamped at Dundalk, the Duke of Norfolk was
succeeded in the colonelcy by Sir Henry Bellasis, who had commanded
the Sixth regiment of foot when it was in the Dutch service.

On the 7th of November the regiment commenced its march from Dundalk
for Armagh, for winter-quarters.

[Sidenote: 1690]

In the summer of 1690, the regiment had the honour to serve at the
battle of the _Boyne_, under the eye of its Sovereign, who commanded
the army in Ireland in person; and on this occasion it took part in
forcing the passage of the river, and in gaining a decisive victory
over the army of King James on the 1st of July.

Advancing from the field of battle towards Dublin, the regiment
was reviewed by King William at Finglass, on the 8th of July, and
mustered six hundred and twenty-eight rank and file under arms.
It was afterwards detached, under Lieut.-General Douglas, against
Athlone; but that fortress was found better provided for a siege than
had been expected, and the regiment rejoined the army.

The TWENTY-SECOND was one of the corps employed at the siege of
_Limerick_. Many things combined to prevent the capture of that
fortress until the following year, and when the siege was raised,
the regiment proceeded into winter-quarters, from whence it sent
out detachments, which had several rencounters with bands of armed
peasantry, called Rapparees.

[Sidenote: 1691]

On the 6th of June, 1691, the regiment joined the army commanded by
Lieut.-General De Ghinkel (afterwards Earl of Athlone) on its march
for _Ballymore_, which fortress was speedily forced to surrender.

From Ballymore, the regiment marched to _Athlone_, and had the honour
to take part in the siege of that fortress, which was captured by
storm on the 1st of July. The grenadier company of the regiment
formed part of the storming party, which forded the river Shannon
under a heavy fire, and carried the works with great gallantry. The
capture of Athlone is one of the many splendid achievements which
have exalted the reputation of the British arms, and its reduction
proved a presage of additional triumphs.

Astonished and confounded by the capture of Athlone, General St. Ruth
retreated, with the French and Irish army under his orders, to a
position at _Aghrim_, where he was attacked on the 12th of July. On
this occasion, the regiment formed part of the brigade commanded by
its Colonel, Brigadier-General Sir Henry Bellasis, and it contributed
towards the complete overthrow of the army of King James, which was
driven from the field with severe loss, including its commander,
General St. Ruth, who was killed by a cannon-ball.

The regiment had one Ensign and two private soldiers killed; one
Major, and twenty-three soldiers wounded.

On the 19th of July the army approached _Galway_; after sunset six
regiments of foot and four squadrons of horse and dragoons passed the
river by pontoons, and on the following morning they captured some
outworks. On the 21st the garrison surrendered. Brigadier-General
Sir Henry Bellasis was nominated Governor of Galway, and he took
possession of the town with the TWENTY-SECOND and two other regiments
of foot.

The surrender of Galway was followed by the siege and capitulation
of _Limerick_, which city was surrendered in September, and completed
the deliverance of Ireland from the power of King James.

[Sidenote: 1692]

[Sidenote: 1695]

After the reduction of Ireland, the regiment was employed in garrison
and other duties of home-service, until 1695, when it proceeded to
the Netherlands, to reinforce the army commanded by King William
III., who was engaged in war for the preservation of the liberties of
Europe against the power of Louis XIV. of France. After landing at
Ostend, the regiment was placed in garrison.

[Sidenote: 1696]

Some advantages had been gained over the French arms; to counteract
which, Louis XIV. attempted to weaken the confederates by forming
plans for causing England to become the theatre of civil war. With
this view the Duke of Berwick and several other officers in the
French service were sent to England in disguise, to instigate the
adherents of King James to take arms; a plot was also formed for
the assassination of King William, and a French army marched to
the coast to be in readiness to embark for England. Under these
circumstances the TWENTY-SECOND regiment and a number of other corps
were ordered to return to England, where they arrived in March, 1696,
and the TWENTY-SECOND landed at Gravesend. The conspirators for the
assassination of King William were discovered; several persons were
apprehended, the British fleet was sent to blockade the French ports,
and the designs of Louis XIV. were frustrated.

[Sidenote: 1697]

In the following year a treaty of peace was concluded at Ryswick,
and the British Monarch saw his efforts for the civil and religious
liberties of Europe attended with success.

[Sidenote: 1698]

[Sidenote: 1700]

The TWENTY-SECOND regiment was afterwards sent to Ireland, where it
was stationed during the remainder of the reign of King William III.

[Sidenote: 1701]

On the 28th of June, 1701, the colonelcy of the regiment was
conferred on Brigadier-General William Selwyn, in succession to
Lieut.-General Sir Henry Bellasis, who was removed to the Second
foot, then styled the Queen Dowager's regiment.

[Sidenote: 1702]

King William died in March, 1702, and was succeeded by Queen
Anne, who declared war against France. Brigadier-General Selwyn
was nominated Governor of Jamaica, and promoted to the rank of
Major-General on the 10th of June, 1702. The TWENTY-SECOND regiment
was ordered to proceed to Jamaica, and several other corps also
embarked for stations in the West Indies: the British government
designing to make a general attack on the possessions of France and
Spain in South America.

Major-General Selwyn died at Jamaica, and was succeeded in the
colonelcy of the regiment by the Lieut.-Colonel, Thomas Handasyd, by
commission dated the 20th of June, 1702.

[Sidenote: 1703]

A considerable body of troops arrived in the West Indies in 1703: but
they were afterwards recalled to take part in the war in Europe. The
TWENTY-SECOND regiment was left at the island of Jamaica, and during
the reign of Queen Anne the regiment was employed in protecting
Jamaica, and the other British settlements in the West Indies, which
important duty it performed with reputation.

[Sidenote: 1704]

[Sidenote: 1705]

While employed on this duty, the regiment received drafts from
several other corps, and in 1705 an augmentation of two companies was
made to its establishment.

[Sidenote: 1712]

Colonel Handasyd was promoted to the rank of Brigadier-General in
December, 1705, and to that of Major-General in January, 1710. In
1712 he retired from the colonelcy, resigning his commission in
favour of his son, Lieut.-Colonel Roger Handasyd, of the regiment.

[Sidenote: 1713]

[Sidenote: 1714]

In the following year the treaty of Utrecht gave peace to Europe;
and on the 31st of May, 1711, an order was issued for the men of the
regiment fit for duty to be formed into two independent companies for
service at Jamaica: the officers and staff returning to Europe to
recruit.

The two independent companies thus formed from the TWENTY-SECOND
were the nucleus of the FORTY-NINTH regiment, which was formed of
independent companies at Jamaica in 1743.

[Sidenote: 1715]

[Sidenote: 1718]

The officers and the serjeants not required for the independent
companies, having arrived in England, were actively employed in
recruiting in 1715; and in 1718 the regiment proceeded to Ireland.

[Sidenote: 1719]

[Sidenote: 1726]

The regiment was stationed in Ireland during the eight years from
1719 to 1726, and in the spring of the last-mentioned year, it
proceeded to the island of Minorca, which had been captured by the
English, in 1708, and was ceded to Great Britain by the treaty of
Utrecht in 1713, together with the fortress of Gibraltar.

[Sidenote: 1727]

In the beginning of 1727, the Spaniards besieged _Gibraltar_, and a
detachment of the regiment, being sent to reinforce the garrison, had
the honor to take part in the successful defence of that important
fortress. When the Spaniards raised the siege, the detachment
rejoined the regiment at Minorca.

[Sidenote: 1730]

Colonel Handasyd commanded the regiment with reputation until 1730,
when he was removed to the Sixteenth foot, and was succeeded by
Brigadier-General William Barrell, from the Twenty-eighth regiment.

[Sidenote: 1734]

Brigadier-General Barrell was removed to the Fourth foot in 1734,
when King George II. conferred the colonelcy of the TWENTY-SECOND
regiment on Colonel the Honorable James St. Clair, from Major in the
First foot-guards.

[Sidenote: 1737]

On the 27th of June, 1737, Colonel the Honorable James St. Clair was
removed to the First, the Royal regiment of foot, and his Majesty
nominated Major-General John Moyle, from the Thirty-sixth, to the
colonelcy of the TWENTY-SECOND regiment.

[Sidenote: 1738]

Major-General Moyle died on the 3rd of November, 1738, and the
colonelcy was afterwards conferred on Colonel Thomas Paget, from the
Thirty-second regiment.

[Sidenote: 1739]

[Sidenote: 1741]

In 1739 Colonel Paget was promoted to the rank of brigadier-general.
He died on the 28th of May, 1741, and was succeeded in the colonelcy
of the regiment by Lieut.-Colonel Richard O'Farrell, from the Ninth
foot.

[Sidenote: 1748]

[Sidenote: 1749]

The TWENTY-SECOND regiment was employed in the protection of the
island of Minorca, during the whole of the War of the Austrian
Succession, and, peace having been concluded, it was relieved from
that duty in 1749, and proceeded to Ireland.

[Sidenote: 1751]

In the Royal Warrant for regulating the uniform and distinctions of
the several regiments of the army, dated the 1st of July, 1751, the
facings of the TWENTY-SECOND regiment were directed to be of _pale
buff_. The First, or King's colour, was the Great Union; the Second,
or Regimental colour, was of pale buff silk, with the Union in the
upper canton; in the centre of the colour, the Number of the Rank of
the regiment, in gold Roman characters, within a wreath of roses and
thistles on the same stalk.

[Sidenote: 1755]

[Sidenote: 1756]

The peace of Aix-la-Chapelle was interrupted in 1755 by the
aggressions of the French on the British territory in North America;
and on the 18th of May, 1756, war was declared against France; in the
same year the TWENTY-SECOND regiment embarked from Ireland for North
America.

[Sidenote: 1757]

In 1757 the regiment was formed in brigade with the Forty-third,
Forty-eighth, and fourth battalion of the Sixtieth, under
Major-General Lord Charles Hay, with the view of being employed in
the attack of _Louisburg_, the capital of the French island of _Cape
Breton_, situate in the Gulf of St. Lawrence; but the expedition was
deferred until the following year, and the regiment was stationed in
Nova Scotia during the winter. Major-General O'Farrell died in the
summer of this year, and the colonelcy of the regiment was conferred
on Brigadier-General Edward Whitmore, from the lieut.-colonelcy of
the Thirty-sixth regiment.

[Sidenote: 1758]

Embarking from Halifax, in May, 1758, under the command of
Lieut.-Colonel Andrew Lord Rollo, the regiment proceeded with the
expedition commanded by Lieut.-General (afterwards Lord) Amherst,
and a landing was effected on the island of Cape Breton, on the
8th of June, when the British troops evinced great gallantry. The
TWENTY-SECOND had Lieutenants Pierce Butler, John Jermyn, and William
Hamilton wounded; also several private soldiers killed and wounded.[6]

The siege of _Louisburg_, the capital of the island, was afterwards
commenced; and in carrying on the approaches the troops underwent
great fatigue with cheerful alacrity. By their perseverance, and
the co-operation of the fleet, the town was taken in July, and two
other islands in the Gulf were surrendered. The troops received the
thanks of Parliament, and the approbation of the Sovereign, for their
conduct on this occasion.

[Sidenote: 1759]

During the year 1759 the TWENTY-SECOND regiment was stationed at
Louisburg. Major-General James Wolfe proceeded up the river St.
Lawrence, with a small armament,[7] and Quebec was captured; but the
nation sustained the loss of Major-General Wolfe, who was killed in
the battle on the heights of Abraham, in front of Quebec, on the 13th
of September, 1759.

[Sidenote: 1760]

In the spring of 1760 the TWENTY-SECOND and Fortieth regiments
proceeded from Louisburg, under Colonel Lord Rollo, of the
TWENTY-SECOND, up the river St. Lawrence, to Quebec, from whence they
advanced upon _Montreal_, with the troops under Brigadier-General
the Honorable James Murray. The French possessions in Canada were
invaded at three points, and the Governor concentrated his forces at
Montreal; but he was unable to withstand the valour and discipline of
British troops, commanded by officers of talent and experience; he
therefore surrendered Montreal, and with it all Canada, the French
battalions becoming prisoners of war. The TWENTY-SECOND had thus the
honor of taking part in the conquest of the two fine provinces of
Upper and Lower Canada, which have since continued to form part of
the possessions of the British Crown.

[Sidenote: 1761]

After the conquest of Canada, the TWENTY-SECOND were removed to
Albany, from whence they proceeded to New York, in April, 1761, and
afterwards embarked, under Lord Rollo, for the West Indies.

The island of _Dominica_ had been declared neutral; but it was found
to be so much under the influence of France, and proved a refuge
to so many privateers of that nation, that the British government
resolved to take possession of it. The TWENTY-SECOND, and other corps
under Lord Rollo, landed on the island on the 6th of June, under
cover of the fire of the men-of-war, and drove the enemy from his
batteries: the grenadiers of the TWENTY-SECOND regiment distinguished
themselves on this occasion. In two days the island was reduced to
submission with little loss.

[Sidenote: 1762]

From Dominica the TWENTY-SECOND proceeded to Carlisle Bay, Barbadoes,
and joined the troops assembled at that place under the orders of
Major-General the Honorable Robert Monckton, for the attack of the
French island of _Martinique_. After several attempts on other parts
of the island, a landing was effected in Cas des Navières Bay, on the
16th of January, 1762; the works on the heights of _Morne Tortenson_
were captured on the 24th of that month; _Morne Garnier_ was carried
on the 27th; and the citadel of _Fort Royal_ surrendered on the 4th
of February. These successes were followed by the surrender of the
opulent city of St. Pierre, and the submission of the whole island
to the British Crown. The Commander of the expedition stated in his
despatch--"I cannot find words to render that ample justice which is
due to the valor of his Majesty's troops which I have had the honor
to command. The difficulties they had to encounter in the attack of
an enemy possessed of every advantage of art and nature were great;
and their perseverance in surmounting these obstacles, furnishes a
noble example of British spirit."

The capture of Martinique was followed by that of _Grenada_, _St.
Lucia_, and _St. Vincent_; and the acquisition of these islands
gave additional honor to the expedition of which the TWENTY-SECOND
regiment formed part.

Additional forces arrived in the West Indies, and the TWENTY-SECOND
regiment, mustering six hundred and two rank and file, under
the command of Major Loftus, joined the expedition commanded by
General the Earl of Albemarle, for the reduction of the wealthy and
important Spanish city of the _Havannah_, in the island of Cuba The
TWENTY-SECOND, Fortieth, Seventy-second, and five companies of the
Ninetieth, were formed in brigade under Brigadier-General Lord Rollo.

Proceeding through the Straits of Bahama, the armament arrived
within six leagues of the Havannah on the 6th of June. A landing
was effected on the following day, and the _Moro_ fort, being the
key-position of the extensive works which covered the town, was
besieged. This proved an undertaking of great difficulty; but every
obstacle was overcome by the spirited efforts of the land and sea
forces, and the fort was captured by storm on the 30th of July. An
extensive series of batteries was prepared, and opened, on the 11th
of August, so well-directed a fire on the works which protected the
town, that the guns of the garrison were soon silenced, and the
important city of the Havannah was surrendered to the British arms.
Nine Spanish men-of-war were delivered up; two were found upon the
stocks; and three sunk at the entrance of the harbour.

In March of this year Major-General Whitmore, who was drowned at
sea, was succeeded in the colonelcy by Major-General the Honorable
Thomas Gage, from the Eightieth regiment, a provincial corps which
was raised in 1758, and disbanded after the treaty of Fontainebleau.

[Sidenote: 1763]

At the peace of Fontainebleau the _Havannah_ was restored to Spain,
in exchange for the province of Florida, on the continent of America;
and in 1763 the TWENTY-SECOND regiment proceeded to _West Florida_.

[Sidenote: 1764]

[Sidenote: 1765]

The regiment was stationed in Florida during the year 1764, and in
1765 it was relieved from duty in that province, and embarked for
Great Britain.

[Sidenote: 1766]

[Sidenote: 1770]

[Sidenote: 1772]

[Sidenote: 1773]

From 1766 to 1769 the regiment was employed at various stations in
England; during the years 1770, 1771, and 1772, it performed duty in
Scotland; and in 1773 it proceeded to Ireland.

[Sidenote: 1775]

While the TWENTY-SECOND were stationed in Ireland the
misunderstanding between the English government and the British
provinces in North America, on the subject of taxation, was followed
by hostilities. The regiment embarked from Ireland for North America
in 1775, and joined the troops at Boston under General Gage.

During the night of the 16th of June the Americans commenced
fortifying the heights on the peninsula of Charlestown, called
_Bunker's Hill_; and on the following day they were attacked by the
flank companies of the British corps, and by a few regiments, and
driven from their works. The TWENTY-SECOND lost their commanding
officer, Lieut.-Colonel James Abercromby, who died of his wounds. He
was succeeded by Major James Campbell.

[Sidenote: 1776]

General Sir William Howe assumed the command of the British troops in
North America, on General Gage returning to England in October, 1775;
in March, 1776, Boston was vacated, when the TWENTY-SECOND proceeded
to Nova Scotia.

From Nova Scotia, the regiment sailed with the expedition to Staten
Island, near New York; and, additional troops having arrived from
Europe, it was formed in brigade with the Forty-third, Fifty-fourth,
and Sixty-third, under Brigadier-General Francis Smith.

A landing was effected on _Long Island_ on the 22nd of August; and
on the 27th of that month the TWENTY-SECOND were engaged in driving
the Americans from their positions at _Flat Bush_ to their fortified
lines at _Brooklyn_. The flank companies had several men killed and
wounded on this occasion; the loss of the battalion companies was
limited to two men.

The Americans abandoned their lines at Brooklyn, and passed the
river to New York. They were followed by the British, who gained
possession of New York, captured Fort Washington, and reduced a great
part of the Jerseys.

During the winter the regiment was detached, with several other
corps, under Lieut.-Generals Clinton and Earl Percy, against _Rhode
Island_. The regiment embarked on this service in the beginning of
December, and a landing being effected at daybreak on the 9th of that
month, the island was speedily reduced to submission.

[Sidenote: 1777]

During the year 1777 the regiment was stationed in Rhode Island.
On the 10th of July the American Colonel, Barton, arrived at Rhode
Island with a few active men, surprised Major-General Richard
Prescott in his quarters, and conveyed him from the island a prisoner.

[Sidenote: 1778]

In May, 1778, it was ascertained that Major-General Sullivan had
taken the command of the American troops at Providence, with the
view of making a descent on Rhode Island; and on the night of the
24th of May the battalion companies of the TWENTY-SECOND, the flank
companies of the Fifty-fourth, and a company of Hessians, embarked
under Lieut.-Colonel Campbell of the TWENTY-SECOND, to attack the
enemy's quarters. After landing three miles below _Warren_, early
on the following morning, a detachment under Captain Seir of the
TWENTY-SECOND destroyed a battery at Papasquash Point, making a
Captain and six American artillery men prisoners. Another detachment
destroyed a number of boats, a galley of six twelve pounders, and two
sloops, in the Kickamuct River. The party then marched to Warren,
destroyed a park of artillery, a quantity of stores, and a privateer
sloop. Afterwards proceeding to Bristol, a further quantity of stores
was destroyed. The Americans assembled in great numbers, and fired on
the British from a great distance, but did little injury. Lieutenant
HAMILTON of the TWENTY-SECOND, eight British, and four Hessian
soldiers were wounded.

On the 30th of May another detachment, under Major Eyre of the
Fifty-fourth, made a successful incursion to a creek near Taunton
River, and inflicted a severe loss on the Americans.

The King of France having united with the Americans, a French
armament arrived off the coast, and formidable preparations were
made for the re-capture of Rhode Island. The French fleet, however,
sustained some severe losses from a storm, and from the English
navy. A numerous American force under Major-General Sullivan landed
at Howland's Ferry, on the 9th of August, and commenced the siege
of _Newport_, in defence of which place the TWENTY-SECOND were
employed. The place being defended with great resolution, and
the Americans being disappointed of aid from the French fleet,
they raised the siege, and retired on the 29th of August. The
TWENTY-SECOND, Forty-third, and flank companies of the Thirty-eighth
and Fifty-fourth regiments, marched under Brigadier-General Smith, by
the east road, to intercept the retreating enemy. A stand was made
by the Americans, and some sharp fighting occurred, in which the
TWENTY-SECOND, under Lieut.-Colonel Campbell, highly distinguished
themselves. The Americans were driven from _Quakers' Hill_, when they
fell back to their works at the north end of the island, from which
they afterwards withdrew. Major-General Pigot stated in his public
despatch,--"To these particulars I am, in justice, obliged to add
Brigadier-General Smith's report, who, amidst the general tribute
due to the good conduct of every individual under his command,
has particularly distinguished Lieut.-Colonel CAMPBELL and the
TWENTY-SECOND regiment, on whom, by their position, the greatest
weight of the action fell." The regiment had eleven rank and file
killed; Lieutenant Cleghorn, Ensigns Bareland, Proctor, and Adam, two
serjeants, and forty-eight rank and file wounded; one man missing.

[Sidenote: 1779]

The British Commander-in-Chief in North America, Lieut.-General Sir
Henry Clinton, having resolved to vacate Rhode Island, the regiment
embarked from thence on the 25th of October, 1779, and proceeded to
New York, where it arrived on the 27th of that month.

[Sidenote: 1780]

During the remainder of the American War the regiment was stationed
at New York and the posts in advance of that city.

[Sidenote: 1782]

General the Honorable Thomas Gage was removed to the Seventeenth
Light Dragoons in April, 1782, and King George III. conferred the
colonelcy of the TWENTY-SECOND regiment on Major-General Charles
O'Hara, from captain and lieut.-colonel in the Second foot-guards.

A letter, dated the 31st of August, 1782, conveyed to the
regiment His Majesty's pleasure that it should be designated the
TWENTY-SECOND, or the CHESHIRE regiment, in order that a connexion
between the corps and that county should be cultivated, with the view
of promoting the success of the recruiting service.

[Sidenote: 1783]

The American War having terminated, the regiment returned to Europe
in 1783 and was stationed in South Britain.

[Sidenote: 1785]

In 1785, while the regiment was stationed at Windsor, under the
command of Lieut.-Colonel Crosbie, and furnished the usual guard
at the Castle, where his Majesty resided, an "ORDER OF MERIT" was
instituted in the corps, with the view of promoting good order and
discipline,--the field-officers, captains, and adjutant for the time
being, to be members of the order. The order consisted of THREE
CLASSES: the first wore a silver medal gilt, suspended to a blue
riband two inches broad, and worn round the neck; the second a silver
medal, and the third a bronze medal, similarly worn. The candidates
for the third class must have served seven years with an unblemished
character; for the second, fourteen; and for the first, twenty-one
years. On the 1st of July, the KING was graciously pleased to accept
from Lieut.-Colonel Crosbie a medal of the first class of the
regimental ORDER OF MERIT: and on the 3rd of that month, the regiment
being then encamped in Windsor Forest, assembled on parade, with the
non-commissioned officers and soldiers selected to receive medals in
front, the rules of the order were read; the corps presented arms,
the band played "God save the King;" the members of the order took
off their hats, and the commanding officer invested each member with
his medal; the drums beating a point of war during the whole time.

[Sidenote: 1787]

In 1787 the regiment proceeded to Guernsey and Jersey, where its
establishment was augmented; and it was ordered to be held in
readiness for foreign service, in consequence of some revolutionary
proceedings in Holland. In October the regiment proceeded to
Portsmouth, and its establishment was soon afterwards reduced.
Previous to leaving Guernsey, it received the thanks of the
Lieut.-Governor for its excellent conduct.

[Sidenote: 1788]

On quitting Portsmouth in 1788 for Chatham, the regiment received a
very flattering mark of the high estimation in which its conduct was
held by the inhabitants.

[Sidenote: 1790]

The regiment left Chatham and Dover in the spring of 1790, and
proceeding to Ireland landed at Cork on the 5th of April.

[Sidenote: 1791]

Major-General Charles O'Hara was removed to the Seventy-fourth
Highlanders in April, 1791, and was succeeded in the colonelcy of
the TWENTY-SECOND by Major-General David Dundas, Adjutant-General of
the Army in Ireland.

[Sidenote: 1792]

In 1792, a slight alteration was made in the uniform, and the
establishment was augmented.

[Sidenote: 1793]

Meanwhile a revolution had taken place in France, and the violent
conduct of the republican government in that country occasioned a
war between Great Britain and France, which commenced in 1793. In
September of that year the flank companies of the TWENTY-SECOND
regiment embarked for the West Indies, for the purpose of taking part
in the capture of the French West India islands. They were followed
by the battalion companies in December.

[Sidenote: 1794]

The flank companies joined the armament under General Sir Charles
(afterwards Earl) Grey, who effected a landing at three different
points on the island of _Martinique_, in February, 1794, and
accomplished in a short period the conquest of that valuable colony.

The grenadier brigade under His Royal Highness Prince Edward,
afterwards the Duke of Kent, and the light infantry under
Major-General Dundas, were engaged in the conquest of _St. Lucia_ in
the beginning of April.

After the conquest of St. Lucia, an attack was made on _Guadaloupe_,
and that valuable island was speedily rescued from the power of the
republican government of France.

The regiment proceeded to the island of Martinique, where it was
joined by the flank companies.

Two hundred men, commanded by Lieut.-Colonel Lysaght, proceeded to
the island of _St. Domingo_, and formed part of the garrison of
Cape St. Nicholas Mole: and five companies joined the garrison of
_Busy-town_, which place was besieged by the enemy.

In April, the TWENTY-SECOND, Twenty-third, and Forty-first
regiments, with some other troops, embarked under the command of
Brigadier-General John Whyte, for the attack of _Port-au-Prince_, the
capital of the French possessions in the island of _St. Domingo_.
A landing was effected on the 31st of May; some severe fighting
occurred, in which the TWENTY-SECOND distinguished themselves:
_Fort Bizzotton_ was captured, and the enemy was forced to abandon
_Port-au-Prince_, which was taken possession of by the British
troops. The regiment had Captain Wallace killed on this occasion,
also several private soldiers killed and wounded. Unfortunately a
malignant fever broke out in the town, and the British lost forty
officers and six hundred soldiers by disease within two months after
the capture of the place.

A detachment of the regiment formed part of the garrison of _Fort
Bizzotton_, which was attacked by two thousand of the enemy on
the 5th of December. The British defended their post with great
gallantry, and repulsed the assailants. Lieutenant Hamilton of the
TWENTY-SECOND distinguished himself.

Another portion of the regiment was stationed at Jeremie, and a
detachment at Irois.

[Sidenote: 1795]

Having sustained severe loss from the climate of St. Domingo, the
regiment was relieved from duty at that island, and returned to
England in 1795.

Lieut.-General Dundas was removed to the Seventh Light Dragoons, and
the colonelcy of the TWENTY-SECOND was conferred on Major-General
William Crosbie, from the Eighty-ninth regiment.

[Sidenote: 1798]

The regiment was stationed in England recruiting its ranks until
December, 1798, when it proceeded to Guernsey.

Major-General Crosbie died this year, and was succeeded by
Major-General John Graves Simcoe, from the Eighty-first regiment.

[Sidenote: 1799]

In November, 1799, the regiment was withdrawn from Guernsey, and
landed at Portsmouth on the 15th of that month.

On its return from the West Indies, the regiment enlisted a number
of boys, or youths; and in 1798 it received drafts of boys, or lads,
from other corps; it was designated a boy regiment, and sent to the
Cape of Good Hope, where the youths, it was conjectured, would be
gradually accustomed to a warm climate, and become better adapted for
service in the East Indies, than recruits sent direct from Europe to
India.

[Sidenote: 1800]

In January and February, 1800, the regiment embarked for the Cape of
Good Hope, where it arrived in May and June following. The companies
on board of one transport, the Surat Castle, suffered severely in
consequence of their crowded state: the crew was composed of Lascars,
among whom much disease prevailed; the infection was communicated
to the soldiers, and the men of the TWENTY-SECOND suffered in their
health; sixty soldiers were sent on shore, to a general hospital,
before the ship left England. The survivors arrived at the Cape in
a sickly state; they had been obliged to aid in working the vessel
during the voyage, and the masts and rigging had been damaged during
a gale of wind.

[Sidenote: 1801]

The head-quarters were established at Muisenberg, and afterwards
encamped at Wynberg, a tongue of land projecting from the east side
of Table Mountain. The sick men received every attention which could
be procured by Major-General Francis Dundas, commanding at the Cape,
and as they recovered they joined the head-quarters, which were
removed to Simon's-town in January, 1801, and again encamped at
Wynberg in March. In May the regiment marched into Cape Town, and in
September joined the camp at Rondebosch.

The lads having become much improved in size and strength, the light
infantry company joined the flank battalion; and the grenadiers were
detached to the interior, and stationed at Graaff Reinett.

[Sidenote: 1802]

Leaving the camp in January, 1802, the regiment was removed to
Muisenberg, Simon's-town, and Graaff Reinett.

The period having arrived for the regiment to proceed to India, it
was joined by a number of volunteers from corps serving at the Cape
of Good Hope, and embarked from thence in September, October, and
November, when it mustered thirty-one officers, and one thousand and
fifty-five non-commissioned officers and soldiers fit for duty.

[Sidenote: 1803]

In February, 1803, the last division of the regiment landed at Fort
William, Calcutta, where the other companies had previously arrived.

At this period two powerful chieftains, Dowlat Rao Scindia and
Jeswunt Rao Holkar, had usurped the powers of the Peishwa, and were
desolating the Mahratta states with war; and these two chiefs,
with the Rajah of Berar, formed a confederacy against the British
and their allies. Under these circumstances the flank companies
of the regiment embarked from Fort William, and joined the field
force, under Lieut.-Colonel Harcourt, assembled for the attack of
the province of Cuttack. On entering that province, the troops had
to overcome numerous difficulties from the nature of the country,
the season of the year, and the resistance of the enemy, which they
surmounted with great gallantry.

On the 4th of October, the flank companies of the TWENTY-SECOND
regiment highly distinguished themselves at the capture of the fort
of _Barrabatta_ by storm, when they led the assault, and took several
of the enemy's colours. They had one man killed; Captain Harlston and
eight soldiers wounded. The colours captured by the TWENTY-SECOND,
with some others taken by the Ninth and Nineteenth Native Infantry,
were publicly displayed at Calcutta, and afterwards lodged at Fort
William, with an inscription of the names of the corps by which taken.

[Sidenote: 1804]

The flank companies of the regiment remained in the field, and the
splendid successes of the British arms appeared likely to bring about
a speedy termination of the war; but hostilities were protracted
by the defection of the Rajah of Bhurtpore. The flank companies of
the TWENTY-SECOND joined the army under Lord Lake: they had two men
killed and three wounded at the capture of _Deeg_, in December, and
were engaged in the attempt to bring the refractory Rajah Sing to
submission by the siege of the strong fortress of Bhurtpore.

[Sidenote: 1805]

In the meantime, the regiment had commenced its march from Fort
William, for the Upper provinces, and in January, 1805, it halted and
encamped at Benares; but resumed its march in February, and proceeded
to Cawnpore.

The siege of _Bhurtpore_ was carried on, and the flank companies
were engaged in the unsuccessful attempt to capture that place
by storm on the 9th of January, when they had eleven men killed
and twenty-four wounded. They were also engaged in the desperate
attempt to capture the place by storm, on the 21st of January, when
they had Captain Menzies and four men killed; Captains Lindsay and
McNight, Lieutenants Mansergh, Sweetman, and Caswell, and thirty-one
non-commissioned officers and soldiers, wounded. At the third
unsuccessful attack, on the 21st of February, they had two serjeants
and three soldiers killed; three serjeants and four soldiers wounded.

Serjeant John Ship, of the regiment, led the forlorn hope on each
occasion, and his gallant conduct was rewarded with the commission
of ensign in the Sixty-fifth regiment.

Rajah Sing submitted, and concluded a treaty of peace with the
British: the army withdrew from Bhurtpore, and the surviving officers
and soldiers of the flank companies joined the regiment at Cawnpore,
in June.

Holkar continued his resistance to the British authority, and Scindia
evinced a disposition to renew hostilities. These events occasioned
the regiment to quit Cawnpore, in October, to pursue the army of
Holkar, who was driven from place to place, until the British troops
arrived at the banks of the Hyphasis, or Sutlej, where he submitted,
and a treaty of peace was concluded in December. Scindia also
concluded a second treaty, and the British power and influence in
India were thus augmented and consolidated.

[Sidenote: 1806]

From the banks of the Sutlej, the regiment marched to Delhi, where
it arrived in February, 1806, and in March it was removed to Muttra,
where it received the thanks of General Lord Lake, and of the
Governor-General in Council, for its conduct during the war.

On the 30th of October, General Simcoe, who died in 1806, was
succeeded in the colonelcy of the regiment by Lieut.-General Sir
James Henry Craig, from the Eighty-sixth foot.

[Sidenote: 1807]

Leaving Muttra in July, 1807, the regiment proceeded to Berhampore,
where it arrived on the 7th of August.

[Sidenote: 1809]

Major-General the Honorable Edward Finch was appointed colonel of
the regiment on the 18th of September, 1809, from the Fifty-fourth
foot, in succession to Sir James Henry Craig, K.B., removed to the
Seventy-eighth Highlanders.

[Sidenote: 1810]

The regiment remained at Berhampore until August, 1810, when it
embarked in boats, and proceeded to Fort William, in order to form
part of the expedition against the _Mauritius_, under Major-General
the Honorable J. Abercromby. A landing was effected in the bay of
Mapou, on the 29th of November, without opposition, and on the
following day the troops advanced towards the capital; being exposed
to severe heat, and unable to procure water, the soldiers became
exhausted, and arriving at the powder-mills, five miles from Port
Louis, they halted near the stream. Resuming the march on the 1st of
December, the troops were opposed by the enemy in force, and some
sharp fighting occurred, in which the TWENTY-SECOND took part and had
several men wounded. The French were driven from their ground, and
they fell back upon Port Louis; the British took post in front of the
position occupied by the French. Being unable to withstand the valour
and discipline of the invading army, the governor, General de Caen,
surrendered the island to the British arms.

[Sidenote: 1811]

After the capture of the Mauritius, the regiment was stationed a
short time at that island, and in January it sent a detachment
of five officers and seventy men to Tamatave, in the Island of
Madagascar. In March and April the regiment was removed to the island
of Bourbon, where it was joined by the survivors of the detachment
from Madagascar, reduced in number, by disease, to two officers and
twenty-five men: they had been made prisoners by the enemy, and
re-captured by the British ships of war.

[Sidenote: 1812]

[Sidenote: 1813]

In July, 1812, the regiment returned to the Mauritius; but again
proceeded to Bourbon, in August, and was removed to the Mauritius a
second time in May, 1813.

[Sidenote: 1814]

[Sidenote: 1815]

A number of men having volunteered from the militia to the
TWENTY-SECOND regiment, His Royal Highness the Prince Regent was
pleased to approve of a _second battalion_ being formed, and it was
placed on the establishment of the army on the 10th of February,
1814. The war in Europe being terminated soon afterwards, by the
abdication of Napoleon Bonaparte, and the restoration of the Bourbon
dynasty to the throne of France, the second battalion was disbanded
at Chester, on the 24th of October, transferring the men fit for duty
to the first battalion, which they joined at the Mauritius, in April,
1815, in so good a state, as to be specially noticed in general
orders, and Captain Thomas Poole, commanding the party, received the
thanks of the governor.

On the 1st of June, 1815, the rifle company of the first battalion
of the Twelfth regiment, together with the first battalion of the
Eighty-seventh regiment, and the flank companies of the TWENTY-SECOND
regiment, were formed into a field brigade, and on the 16th of June
embarked from the Mauritius to join the army in Bengal. The troops
arrived at Bengal on the 2nd and 3rd of August; re-embarked on
the 23rd of September, and landed at the Mauritius on the 14th of
November, 1815. The light company of the TWENTY-SECOND regiment,
while on passage to Bengal, was wrecked in the Straits between Ceylon
and the opposite continent. The conduct of the flank companies, while
in India, was highly commended in general orders issued before they
embarked from Fort William,--on their return to the Mauritius.

While the flank companies were thus employed, the remainder of the
TWENTY-SECOND regiment was placed under canvas at Pamplemousse, seven
miles from Port Louis, as it was suffering severely from a prevailing
disease at the Mauritius. There being but a small force left on
the island, and this reduced in numbers and efficiency by disease,
a meditated insurrection had nearly attained an outbreak, but for
timely information.

[Sidenote: 1819]

The regiment occupied various stations at the Mauritius, under the
command of Colonel Dalrymple, until July, 1819, when it embarked
for England. Previous to quitting the island it was inspected by
Major-General Ralph Darling, who expressed, in general orders, his
admiration of its appearance, and of its excellent conduct while
serving under his command.

Though the TWENTY-SECOND had participated in the capture of the
Mauritius, the French inhabitants of the island presented a large
and handsome gold snuff-box to the regiment on its embarkation for
England, bearing this inscription, "_Aux Officiers du 22 Régiment
de S. M.--Souvenir des Habitans de l'île Maurice_; 1819;" thus
testifying their good feeling, and appreciation of the orderly and
soldierlike conduct of the corps during its service of nine years in
the colony.

After landing at Gosport, in November and December, the regiment
marched to Northampton, under the orders of Colonel Sir Hugh Gough,
K.C.B.

[Sidenote: 1821]

In the Autumn of 1821 the regiment marched to Liverpool, where
it embarked on the 9th of October, for Ireland. Having landed at
Dublin on the 10th of October, the regiment marched to Buttevant,
with detachments at Mallow, Bantyre, Charleville, Newmarket, and
Ballyclough.

Some changes of quarters afterwards took place in consequence of the
riotous and violent proceedings of the misguided peasantry at this
part of the country, and the disposition evinced to violate the law.

[Sidenote: 1822]

On the evening of the 25th of January, 1822, three thousand men
assembled with such arms as they could procure, for an attack on
Newmarket; and they were repulsed, with severe loss, by thirty men
of the regiment, under Captain Thomas Keappock and Lieutenant Samuel
Green, who received the expression of the approbation of His Royal
Highness the Duke of York, the Commander-in-Chief, and were presented
with a silver cup, by the noblemen, gentlemen, and inhabitants of
the town and vicinity of Newmarket,--"In testimony of the high sense
entertained of their gallant conduct in attacking and defeating an
armed body of three thousand insurgents, with thirty men."

A reinforcement was sent to Newmarket, and the regiment performed
many marches, and much extra duty, in consequence of the disturbed
state of the country.

[Sidenote: 1823]

[Sidenote: 1824]

The head-quarters of the regiment were stationed at Buttevant during
the year 1823, and the first nine months of 1824; and the state
of the regiment was repeatedly commended in orders by the General
Officers who made the half-yearly inspections.

[Sidenote: 1826]

In October, 1824, the regiment marched to Dublin; it was subsequently
stationed in Galway, and in the summer of 1826 it was divided into
six service and four depôt companies, in order that the former might
proceed on foreign service.

The service companies embarked from Cork in November and December,
in three divisions, commanded by Lieut.-Colonel P. C. Taylor, Major
James Steuart, and Captain Thomas Poole, and the last division
arrived at the island of Jamaica in February, 1827.

[Sidenote: 1827]

The service companies suffered severely from the effects of the
climate of Jamaica; in September and October, 1827, they lost three
officers, seventeen serjeants, and one hundred and twenty men, from
fever; the total loss during the first year was Lieut.-Colonel P.
C. Taylor, Major James Steuart, Captain William Norton, Lieutenant
Edward Gordon, Ensign E. T. Evans, Paymaster R. Barlow, Adjutant
William Potenger, and one hundred and seventy-two non-commissioned
officers and soldiers.

[Sidenote: 1828]

[Sidenote: 1829]

In the following year the losses were much less numerous; and in
April, 1829, Lieut.-Colonel C. G. Falconar arrived and assumed the
command. In June of the same year, the regiment received the thanks
of the civil authorities for the prompt assistance rendered in
extinguishing an alarming fire in the vicinity of Spanish Town.

[Sidenote: 1830]

On the 7th of June, 1830, the depôt companies embarked from Cork for
South Britain, where they were stationed until the summer of 1836,
when they embarked from Liverpool for Ireland, and landed at Dublin.

[Sidenote: 1831]

The regiment was employed in suppressing a formidable insurrection
among the slaves in Jamaica in the winter of 1831-2; the two flank
companies were encamped on the scene of the insurrection in the
following winter, and when the regiment left Falmouth, in Jamaica,
in the latter part of the year 1833, the thanks of the custos and
magistrates were awarded to the corps for its good conduct.[8]

[Sidenote: 1837]

The service companies performed duty at the island of Jamaica until
the beginning of 1837, when they commenced embarking for Europe, and
landed at Cork in March and April; they were afterwards joined by the
depôt companies.

[Sidenote: 1838]

[Sidenote: 1839]

[Sidenote: 1840]

The regiment remained in Ireland during the years 1838 and 1839;
and embarking from Dublin on the 19th of December, 1840, landed at
Liverpool on the 21st of that month.

[Sidenote: 1841]

The TWENTY-SECOND regiment, having been selected to proceed to
India, embarked from Gravesend in January, 1841, and landed at
Bombay in May following. It afterwards proceeded to Poonah, where an
encampment was formed, and the regiment was stationed there during
the remainder of the year.

[Sidenote: 1842]

In the following year the regiment quitted the camp at Poonah by
divisions, and proceeding to the country of Scinde, was encamped
some time near Kurrachee. The regiment was encamped in two separate
divisions at Kurrachee, as cholera had broken out violently in its
ranks, from which it suffered severely, and during its prevalence
a field-officer's detachment, under Major Poole, consisting of two
companies, was ordered to proceed by the Indus, in the month of
April, 1842, to Sukkur, in Upper Scinde, previously to the withdrawal
of the British force from Beloochistan.

The navigation of the Indus had been acquired by the British in 1839,
and application was made to the Ameers, who governed the country,
for a portion of land on the banks of the river. This they agreed to
give; but at the same time meditated the destruction of the British
power in the country by treachery. The TWENTY-SECOND quitted the camp
at Kurrachee in November, and proceeded up the country.

[Sidenote: 1843]

The regiment formed part of the force assembled under Major-General
Sir Charles Napier, and was employed in the destruction of the fort
of _Emaum Ghur_, in the desert, on the 14th and 15th of January, 1843.

Major-General W. F. P. Napier, in his work entitled "_The Conquest
of Scinde_," has given, with his characteristic eloquence, the
following spirited description of the march to _Emaum Ghur_, a march
which His Grace the Duke of Wellington described in the House of
Lords, "_as one of the most curious military feats he had ever known
to be performed, or had ever perused an account of in his life.
Sir Charles Napier_ (added His Grace) _moved his troops through
the desert against hostile forces; he had his guns transported
under circumstances of extreme difficulty, and in a manner the most
extraordinary; and he cut off a retreat of the enemy which rendered
it impossible for them ever to regain their positions_."

"It was a wild and singular country, the wilderness through which
they (the Anglo-Indian troops) were passing. The sand-hills stretched
north and south for hundreds of miles in parallel ridges, rounded at
top, and most symmetrically plaited, like the ripple on the sea-shore
after a placid tide. Varying in their heights, their breadth and
steepness, they presented one uniform surface, but while some were
only a mile broad, others were more than ten miles across; some
were of gentle slopes and low, others lofty, and so steep that the
howitzers could only be dragged up by men. The sand was mingled with
shells, and ran in great streams resembling numerous rivers, skirted
on each side by parallel streaks of soil, which nourished jungle,
yet thinly and scattered. The tracks of the hyena and wild boar, and
the prints of small deer's footsteps, were sometimes seen at first,
but they soon disappeared, and then the solitude of the waste was
unbroken.

"For eight days these intrepid soldiers traversed this gloomy region,
living from hand to mouth, uncertain each morning if water could be
found in the evening; and many times it was not found. They were not
even sure of their right course; yet with fiery valour and untiring
strength, they continued their dreary dangerous way. The camels found
very little food, and got weak, but the stout infantry helped to
drag the heavy howitzers up the sandy steeps; and all the troops,
despising the danger of an attack from the Beloochees, worked with a
power and will that overcame every obstacle. On the eighth day they
reached _Emaum Ghur_, eager to strike and storm, and then was seen
how truly laid down is Napoleon's great maxim, that moral force is in
war to physical force, as four to one. Mahomed Khan, with a strong
fortress well provided, and having a garrison six times as numerous
as the band coming to assail him, had fled with his treasure two days
before; taking a southerly direction, he regained the Indus by tracks
with which his people were well acquainted, leaving all his stores of
grain and powder behind."

As Emaum Ghur could only serve as a stronghold in which the
Beloochees might be able to resist British supremacy, Major-General
Sir Charles Napier determined upon destroying the fortress. It was
a place of great strength, and was constructed of unburnt bricks,
into which the shot easily penetrates, but brings nothing down, so
that recourse was had to mining. The place was full of gunpowder and
grain, and the former was employed in blowing up the fortress, which
was effected on the 15th of January.

After this difficult and harassing service, the troops returned
triumphant on the 23rd of January, to Peer-Abu-Bekr, where
Major-General Sir Charles Napier reunited his whole army. It is to be
observed that the march was performed without the loss of a man, or
without even a sick soldier, and the Ameers' troops were dispersed,
and their plan of campaign frustrated.

A treaty of peace was signed by the Ameers on the 14th of February:
directions were sent to the British political resident, Major Outram,
by the Ameers, to quit _Hyderabad_, the capital, and before this was
complied with, _eight thousand_ Beloochees, commanded by several
Ameers in person, attempted to force an entrance into the enclosure
of the British residency. The light company of the TWENTY-SECOND
regiment, mustering _one hundred_ men, under Captain T. S. Conway,
Lieutenant F. P. Harding, and Ensign R. Pennefather, was the only
force at the residency, the enclosure of which was surrounded by a
wall from four to five feet high. The gallant officers and soldiers
of this company kept the eight thousand Scindian troops, with six
pieces of artillery, at bay nearly four hours; and when their
ammunition was nearly expended, they retreated to the river, with
Major Outram, and embarking on board of two steam-vessels, joined the
troops under Major-General Sir Charles Napier, at Hala. The light
company had two men killed and four wounded on this occasion.

The Ameers having thus commenced hostilities, assembled a numerous
force to destroy the few British troops in the country. Major-General
Sir Charles Napier, trusting to the valour of the troops under
his orders, advanced to meet the enemy. On the 17th of February,
_twenty-two thousand_ Scindian troops were discovered in position
behind the bank of a river at _Meeanee_. The British, mustering _two
thousand eight hundred_ men, advanced in _echelon_ of regiments to
attack their numerous opponents, and the TWENTY-SECOND, commanded by
Lieut.-Colonel J. L. Pennefather, had the honor to lead the attack. A
numerous body of Beloochees discharged their matchlocks and pistols
at the TWENTY-SECOND, and then rushed forward sword in hand to close
upon the British line; but these bold and skilful swordsmen went down
under the superior power of the musket and bayonet.

After a severe contest the Scindian army was defeated, and, on the
day following the victory, six of the Ameers delivered their swords
to the British General upon the field of battle. The Beloochees
lost five thousand men, and all their guns, ammunition, and treasure
were taken, together with their camp and standards. On the 20th of
February, the British colours waved in triumph over the fortress of
_Hyderabad_.

In Major-General Napier's admirable work on "_The Conquest of
Scinde_," is given the following spirited and picturesque description
of the battle of MEEANEE:--

"The Ameers' right was found to be strengthened and covered by the
village of Kattree, which was filled with men; that flank offered no
weak point. But in the Shikargah on their left the General instantly
detected a flaw. It has been before said this Shikargah was covered
by a wall, having only one opening, not very wide, through which it
was evident the Beloochees meant to pour out on the flank and rear
of the advancing British line. The General rode near this wall, and
found it was nine or ten feet high; he rode nearer, and marked it
had no loop-holes for the enemy to shoot through; he rode into the
opening under a play of matchlocks, and, looking behind the wall,
saw there was no scaffolding to enable the Beloochees to fire over
the top. Then the inspiration of genius came to the aid of heroism.
Taking a company of the TWENTY-SECOND, he thrust them at once into
the opening, telling their brave Captain, Tew, that he was to block
up that entrance; to die there, if it must be,--never to give way!
And well did the gallant fellow obey his orders: he died there, but
the opening was defended. The great disparity of numbers was thus
abated, and the action of six thousand men paralysed by the more
skilful action of only eighty! It was, on a smaller scale as to
numbers, a stroke of generalship like that which won Blenheim for the
Duke of Marlborough.

[Illustration: TWENTY-SECOND REGIMENT.

FOR CANNON'S MILITARY RECORDS.

_Madeley lith. 3 Wellington S^t. Strand._]

"Now the advancing troops, in echelon of regiments, approached the
enemy's front. The British right passed securely under the wall of
the Shikargah, cheered and elated as they moved by the rattling sound
of Tew's musketry. * * * * Meanwhile the dead level of the plain was
swept by the Beloochee cannon and matchlocks, which were answered
from time to time by Lloyd's batteries, yet not frequently, for
rapidly and eagerly did the troops press forward to close with their
unseen foes. When the TWENTY-SECOND had got within a hundred yards
of the high sloping bank of the Fulaillee, they threw their fire at
the top of the bank, where the heads of the Beloochees could be just
seen, bending with fiery glances over the levelled matchlocks, and
the voice of the General, shrill and clear, was heard along the line,
commanding the charge.

"Then rose the British shout; the English guns were run forward into
position, the infantry closed upon the Fulaillee with a run, and
rushed up the sloping bank. The Beloochees, having their matchlocks
laid ready in rest along the summit, waited until the assailants
were within fifteen yards ere their volley was delivered; the rapid
pace of the British, and the steepness of the slope on the inside,
deceived their aim, and the execution was not great; the next moment
the TWENTY-SECOND were on the top of the bank, thinking to bear
down all before them, but they staggered back in amazement at the
forest of swords waving in their front! Thick as standing corn,
and gorgeous as a field of flowers, stood the Beloochees in their
many-coloured garments and turbans; they filled the broad deep bed
of the Fulaillee, they clustered on both banks, and covered the
plain beyond. Guarding their heads with their large dark shields,
they shook their sharp swords, beaming in the sun, their shouts
rolled like a peal of thunder, as with frantic gestures they rushed
forwards, and full against the front of the TWENTY-SECOND dashed with
demoniac strength and ferocity. But with shouts as loud, and shrieks
as wild and fierce as theirs, and hearts as big, and arms as strong,
the Irish soldiers met them with that queen of weapons the musket,
and sent their foremost masses rolling back in blood."

The following extracts from the despatch of Major-General Sir Charles
Napier testify the part borne by the TWENTY-SECOND in the victory of
MEEANEE:--

"Lieutenant-Colonel Pennefather was severely wounded as with the
high courage of a soldier he led his regiment (TWENTY-SECOND) up
the desperate bank of the Fulaillee. Major Wyllie, Captains Tucker
and Conway, Lieutenants Harding and Phayre, were all wounded, while
gloriously animating their men to sustain the shock of numbers."

"Captains Meade, Tew, and Cookson, with Lieutenant Wood, all fell
honorably, urging on the assault with unmitigated valour.

"Major Poole, of the TWENTY-SECOND, and Captain Jackson of the
Twenty-fifth native infantry, who succeeded to the command of those
regiments, proved themselves worthy of their dangerous posts.

"The Acting Assistant Quartermaster-General, Lieutenant McMurdo, of
the TWENTY-SECOND regiment, had his horse killed, and, while on foot
leading some soldiers in a desperate dash down the enemy's side of
the bank, he cut down a Chieftain. He has greatly assisted me by his
activity and zeal during the whole of our operations.

"Innumerable are the individual acts of intrepidity which took place
between our soldiers and their opponents, too numerous for detail in
this despatch, yet well meriting a record."

In the NOTIFICATION of the Right Honorable Lord Ellenborough, the
Governor-General of India, it was directed,

"That the unserviceable guns, taken at Hyderabad, shall be sent
to Bombay, and there cast into a triumphal column, whereon shall
be inscribed in the English, and two native languages, the names
of Major-General Sir Charles Napier, K.C.B., and of the several
officers mentioned by His Excellency in his despatch, and likewise
the names of the several officers, non-commissioned officers, and
privates mentioned in the reports, that thus the names may be for
ever recorded of those who, at MEEANEE, obtained for themselves that
glory in the field, which is the reward dearest to a true soldier."

Major Poole, commanding the TWENTY-SECOND regiment, in consequence
of Lieutenant-Colonel Pennefather having been severely wounded,
stated in his report, respecting the soldiers of the regiment
under his command, who had distinguished themselves in the battle
of Meeanee, "that the officers generally assert that they feel
difficulty in making selections, where the conduct of every man of
their companies was so satisfactory. In so general a field of action
and persevering exertion, I equally feel at a loss where to draw a
distinction; but it may be proper to mention the names of Private
James O'Neill, of the light company, who took a standard whilst we
were actively engaged with the enemy, and drummer Martin Delaney, who
shot, bayoneted, and captured the arms of Meer Whullee Mahomed Khan,
who was mounted, and directing the enemy in the hottest part of the
engagement."

The loss of the TWENTY-SECOND regiment at the battle of Meeanee
was, Captain J. McLeod Tew,[9] one serjeant, and twenty-two rank
and file killed; Lieut.-Colonel J. L. Pennefather, Captain T. S.
Conway, Lieutenants W. M. G. McMurdo and F. P. Harding, Ensigns R.
Pennefather and H. Bowden, one serjeant, one corporal, and fifty
privates wounded.

The whole of the Ameers did not submit, and the Chiefs who continued
to resist assembled an army, which was commanded by Meer Shere
Mahomed. The British advanced from _Hyderabad_ at daybreak on the
morning of the 24th of March, and about half-past eight o'clock
twenty thousand Scindian troops were discovered in order of battle
behind a nullah. Arrangements were immediately made for commencing
the action, and the TWENTY-SECOND regiment led the attack in gallant
style. Major John Poole commanded the brigade, and Captain F. D.
George the regiment, and, stimulated by the heroic example of these
officers, the TWENTY-SECOND advanced steadily against the enemy's
left, exposed to a heavy fire of matchlocks, without returning a
shot, until they arrived within forty paces of the entrenchment,
when they stormed the position occupied by the Beloochees with that
determined bravery which has ever distinguished British soldiers.
Lieutenant Henry J. Coote first mounted the rampart, seized one of
the enemy's standards, and was severely wounded while in the act of
waving it, and cheering on his men; Lieutenant C. T. Powell seized
another standard; and the soldiers, being encouraged by the gallant
example of their officers, displayed that heroism which adorns the
British military character. Privates J. Doherty, C. Lynar, E. Jobin,
J. McCartin, J. Walmsley, G. Roberts, E. Watson and J. Oakley, shot
the defenders, and then captured fourteen standards, and made five
prisoners. Privates S. Cowen, S. Alder, and G. Banbury also captured
standards; and Corporal Tim. Kelly shot one of the Scindians, and
took from him a silver-knobbed standard. The Beloochee infantry and
artillery fought well, but were unable, although greatly superior in
numbers, to resist the determined attack of disciplined soldiers.

Major-General Sir Charles Napier stated in his public despatch, "The
battle was decided by the troop of Horse Artillery, and Her Majesty's
TWENTY-SECOND regiment.

"Of Lieutenant McMurdo's abilities as Acting Assistant
Quartermaster-General, I cannot speak too highly; and regret to say,
he has received a sabre wound from a Beloochee, the third that he cut
down in single combat during the day.

"To the commanders of brigades and regiments, and the officers,
non-commissioned officers, and privates under their command, I have
to return my thanks for their valiant bearing in the action."

The loss of the enemy was very great, and eleven pieces of cannon
were taken in position on the nullah, together with seventeen
standards. The Beloochee force was completely defeated, and their
commander, Meer Shere Mahomed, fled to the desert.[10] Among the
killed was the great promoter of the war, Hoche Mahomed Seedee.
Twenty-three rank and file of the regiment were killed on this
occasion; Lieutenants Thomas Chute, Henry J. Coote, H. A. G. Evans,
and John Brennan, Ensign Richard Pennefather, six serjeants, one
drummer, four corporals, and one hundred and twenty-three privates
wounded. At the battle of Hyderabad, the regiment mustered only five
hundred and sixty-two rank and file; the remainder being sick and
convalescent, having been left at Sukkur in Upper Scinde.

As a mark of Royal approbation for these victories, Her Majesty,
on the 4th of July, 1843, was pleased to appoint Major-General Sir
Charles James Napier a Knight Grand Cross of the Most Honorable
Military Order of the Bath; Lieutenant-Colonel Pennefather,[11]
Brevet Lieutenant-Colonel Poole, Brevet Majors Frederick George, and
Thomas Conway, were also nominated Companions of the Bath, and their
brevet rank was dated from the above period.

Her Majesty was also graciously pleased to command that a medal
should be conferred upon the Officers, Non-commissioned Officers, and
Soldiers engaged in the battles of Meeanee and Hyderabad.

On the 18th of August, 1843, the TWENTY-SECOND received the Royal
authority to bear upon the regimental or second colour, and on
the appointments, the word "SCINDE," in commemoration of its
distinguished gallantry in the campaign against the Ameers of that
country, during the early part of the year 1843.

Her Majesty, on the 2nd of July, 1844, conferred increased honor on
the TWENTY-SECOND, by authorising the corps to bear on the regimental
colour and appointments, in addition to the word "SCINDE," the words
"MEEANEE" and "HYDERABAD," in commemoration of the distinguished
gallantry displayed in the general engagements fought at those places
respectively, on the 17th of February, and 24th of March, 1843.

On the 12th of February, 1844, the thanks of Parliament were voted to
Major-General Sir Charles Napier, G.C.B., and to the troops under his
command, "_for the eminent skill, energy, and gallantry, displayed by
him in the recent military operations in_ SCINDE, _particularly in
the two decisive battles of_ MEEANEE _and_ HYDERABAD;" to the several
officers serving under Sir Charles Napier, "_for their unwearied zeal
and conspicuous gallantry_;" and to the troops, "_for their brave and
meritorious conduct_."

Major-General Sir Charles Napier, on presenting the regiments at
Kurrachee with the Medals conferred on them for their gallantry in
this campaign, addressed the soldiers as follows:--

"Soldiers! the Battle of _Meeanee_ is among those of which history
will speak as proving the superiority of _discipline_ over numbers;
and it is well, Soldiers! that we should dwell upon these things;
that we may understand how Medals are won, and why they are bestowed.

"Had we been without discipline, valour alone would not have won the
victories of _Meeanee_ and _Hyderabad_! Valour is like the _Strength_
of a man, Discipline is like his _Mind_, that directs his strength
to effective exertion. If two pugilists have a boxing-match, and one
strikes at random, while the other boxes with science, planting every
blow home, we know how the fight must be soon decided. So it is with
two armies,--the one disciplined, the other without discipline. The
General of the disciplined Army directs his columns upon that part of
the enemy's position which he deems to be the weakest; as the mind
of the boxer directs his blow against the opening offered by his
unskilful enemy. But this is not all,--obedience to orders (which
is discipline) enables us to bring up all the necessary provisions
of war to the day and to the hour; thus food and ammunition are at
hand to support the blow of battle, just as the shoulder and the
body are thrown forward to support and give vigour to the blow of
the pugilist. But not only is valour useless without discipline,
but it is even dangerous; for without discipline the rashly brave
would run heedlessly against the enemy, the cautious would seek
'vantage ground, and the timid would retreat. Thus the Army would be
scattered: but when an Army is disciplined, the ponderous charges
of Cavalry, the steady tramp of the advancing Infantry, preparing
to charge with a mighty shout, and the rolling thunder of Artillery
pouring forth its iron shower, all combine simultaneously to strike
and overthrow the enemy. Thus, Soldiers, are Medals won, more by
discipline than by any extraordinary efforts of individual courage.
To reward this obedience medals are bestowed, so that every man who
wears this honoured badge is known to the world as one who, in the
midst of the noise, the danger, and confusion of battle, had obeyed
orders, and performed the three great duties of a Soldier--first, not
to fire without orders; next, when he does fire, to level low, so as
to make sure of striking down an enemy; thirdly, to keep his rank and
dress upon his colours. The Medal tells the world that he has bravely
done these things, and no man can walk with one of these Medals
on his breast without feeling the conscious pride of an intrepid
Soldier! His caste may be high caste, or it may be low caste, but the
Soldier, who bears on his breast a medal won in battle, is above all
the castes in the world. The pleasure of giving you these Medals,
Soldiers of the 12th Regiment (Native Infantry), is indeed great to
me. I saw your valiant conduct, and I rejoice in distributing the
reward which you honorably earned, and my satisfaction is increased
by the presence of so large a body of Europeans, for it affords me
an opportunity of saying to my countrymen that they will find these
swarthy warriors of the East staunch and true in action as they were
at Meeanee and Hyderabad, when they followed the example set them by
the glorious TWENTY-SECOND regiment. They will fight to the last
drop of their blood, and stand or fall by the side of their European
comrades. If the Almighty so wills it, that in these eventful times,
War should again arise, and that I am once more permitted to lead an
Army into the field, I should go into action with perfect confidence
in the courage of the Native Troops. I speak of what I know of their
gallantry, not from what I hear, but from what I have seen, and from
my own knowledge, of their daring courage.

"Here I must address myself in a more direct manner to the Officers
now before me, and in justice to them say, that their conduct, and
the conduct of all the British Officers in these two battles, was
very noble. For several hours the two lines were fighting close to
each other, and as I cast my eye along the field, I everywhere saw
the British Officers display their worthiness as Military leaders,
and with unflinching intrepidity animating their Soldiers to battle!
To them, therefore, I will now first distribute these honorable
decorations."

The Governor then dismounted, and advancing to the line of officers
of several regiments, and who had not before received their medals,
his Excellency presented each with the Medal,--the bands playing "God
save the Queen."

On giving that which belonged to Lieutenant Marston, of the 25th
N. I., the General observed,--"But for you, Marston, I probably
should not have had this pleasure;" alluding to this Officer having
intrepidly thrown himself in front of his General when attacked by a
Beloochee Chief, whom the Lieutenant cut down ere he could reach the
General.

On the 18th of April the regiment left Hyderabad, and proceeded to
Kurrachee, where the right wing and head-quarters embarked on the
27th of April, and sailed to Bombay. Previously to the embarkation
of the regiment for Bombay, the following order was issued by
Major-General Sir Charles Napier, Governor of Scinde:--

  "_27th April, 1843._

  "TWENTY-SECOND Regiment!

  "You well know why I send you to Bombay, and you also know how much
  I dislike doing so. But nothing shall stand in the way of your
  health and well-being, that I have the power to remove. Cut up by
  Disease and by Battle, you require rest, that you may again join
  us, and add to the Laurels with which you are already decorated.

  "C. J. NAPIER, _Major-General_,
  _Governor_."

The reception of the regiment at Bombay, on the 2nd of May, was
distinguished by high marks of honor, by command of the Governor, on
which occasion the accompanying order was issued:--

  "_Bombay, Monday, 1st May, 1843._

  "GARRISON ORDERS.

  "By the Honorable the Governor.--The Head-Quarters of Her Majesty's
  TWENTY-SECOND Regiment of Foot having arrived from Scinde, will be
  disembarked to-morrow morning at sunrise.

  "On this occasion the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the
  Garrison, desirous of paying every mark of honor to this
  distinguished Corps, will himself receive it at the Apollo Pier.

  "On the landing of the first Division, a Royal Salute is to be
  fired from the Saluting Battery.

  "The Troops composing the Garrison will be drawn up in Review
  Order, in a convenient position, and will salute Her Majesty's
  TWENTY-SECOND regiment, as it passes on its way to Fort George
  Barracks.

  "His Excellency directs the attendance of all Military Officers at
  the Presidency who may not be sick, or engaged on other duty.

  "The Commandant of the Garrison is requested to carry out the above
  order.

  "BRUCE SETON, _Major_,
  _Town Major_."

The General Staff of the Garrison testified their admiration of the
gallant conduct of the regiment, by giving a public banquet to the
Officers of the corps; and the inhabitants of Bombay, including the
Civil Authorities, raised a handsome subscription, to be applied to
the benefit of the sufferers in the regiment, widows and orphans, by
the Campaign in Scinde.

The left wing landed at Panwell on the 16th of May, and proceeded
from thence to Poonah, where it arrived on the 23rd of May. The right
wing and head-quarters arrived at Poonah, from Bombay, on the 1st of
June.

General the Honorable Edward Finch died on the 27th of October, 1843,
and the colonelcy of the regiment was conferred on Major-General Sir
Charles James Napier, K.C.B.

[Sidenote: 1844]

On the 17th and 18th of October, 1844, the regiment marched from
Poonah in wings to Bowree, and on the 19th the whole moved together
for Field Service in the Kolapore districts, where the regiment lost
two officers, and thirty non-commissioned officers and privates, by
cholera.

A portion of the regiment was employed in taking the north pettah
under the walls of the fort of Punalla, on the 27th of November; on
the 28th, 29th, and 30th of November the regiment, under the command
of Brevet Lieut.-Colonel John Poole, was employed in the investment
of _Punalla_ and _Pownghur_, and on the 1st of December was at
the capture of those forts, the latter of which was taken by the
regiment. During these operations the TWENTY-SECOND formed part of
the third brigade of the force employed under Major-General Delamotte.

On the 26th of December a wing of the regiment marched, and joined
the first brigade on service in the Sawunt-Warree district; the other
wing remained near Kolapore.

On the 31st of December, 1844, a wing of the regiment arrived at
Susseedroog from Kolapore, and joined the first brigade of the Field
Force in the Sawunt-Warree country, and was employed in investing
the forts of Monuhurr and Monsentosh, and participated in all the
operations for driving the enemy out of their stockades in the
densely wooded country between Susseedroog and the Forts.

[Sidenote: 1845]

The regiment had several skirmishes with the enemy; on the 17th of
January, 1845, part of the wing descended the Elephant rock with
other troops, and took the village of Seevapore, in the Concan, close
under Fort Monuhurr, where one man was killed and seven wounded. The
whole of the soldiers were employed, part in the Deccan or heights
above, and part in the Concan close under the forts, investing them
from the 17th to the 26th of January, during which period the forts
were constantly shelled by the British artillery, the enemy from the
forts firing their great guns and musketry.

On the night of the 26th of January the enemy vacated the forts
unperceived, and escaped through a dense jungle, leaving the forts in
the possession of the Anglo-Indian army.

The wing joined the regiment at Kolapore on the 6th of February,
escorting prisoners taken during the insurrection. The regiment was
employed in doing duty over about six hundred prisoners until its
recall to Poonah, for which place it marched on the 16th of April,
and arrived on the 2nd of May, 1845.

A wing of the regiment, consisting of four hundred rank and file,
under the command of Captain Souter, marched from Poonah for Bombay
on the 25th of December, 1845.

[Sidenote: 1846]

The head-quarters of the regiment, under the command of
Lieutenant-Colonel Samuel Brandram Boileau, consisting of five
companies, marched from Poonah to Bombay on the 15th of August, 1846,
and joined the wing of the TWENTY-SECOND at that station. The march
was performed in the middle of the monsoon, in eight days, rain
consequently falling nearly the whole of the way.

The regiment remained together at Bombay, having six companies
at Colaba, and three at Fort George, until the 14th of November,
1846, when the head-quarters, with five of the companies which were
stationed at Colaba, were ordered to Poonah, in consequence of fever
of a malarious nature having attacked the men, nearly every soldier
at Colaba having been admitted into hospital in less than two months;
the casualties were very numerous.

[Sidenote: 1847]

[Sidenote: 1848]

The left wing, consisting of four companies, marched from Bombay
on the 12th of January, 1847, and arrived at Poonah on the 21st of
January. During the year 1848 the regiment continued to be stationed
at Poonah.

[Sidenote: 1849]

On the 25th of January, 1849, the regiment proceeded to Bombay, and
was subsequently stationed at Colaba. The left wing, consisting of
four companies, embarked for Kurrachee on the 24th of January.

In June, 1849, the period to which the Record has been extended, the
regiment remained at Colaba, and consisted of fifty-three serjeants,
nineteen drummers, and 1042 rank and file, under the command of
Lieutenant-Colonel Sydney John Cotton, Lieutenant-Colonel Boileau
being in command of the Poonah brigade.


1849.


[Illustration: BELOOCHEE STANDARD, CAPTURED AT THE BATTLE OF MEEANEE,
BY THE XXII REGIMENT, ON THE 17^{TH} FEBRUARY 1843.

SILVER MEDAL STRUCK IN COMMEMORATION OF THE BATTLES OF MEEANEE AND
HYDERABAD, IN FEBRUARY AND MARCH 1843.

_For Cannon's Military Records._

_Madeley lith. 3 Wellington S^t. Strand._]


  _Description of the Beloochee Standard captured at the Battle of_
  MEEANEE, _on the 17th of February, 1843._

The Beloochee Standard, represented in the engraving, was taken at
the Battle of _Meeanee_, on the 17th of February, 1843, by Private
James O'Neill of the TWENTY-SECOND regiment, as narrated at page 35
of the Historical Record. The Standard is triangular; the longest
side is about seven feet in length, and the other sides measure each
about five feet. The Staff is nine feet in length.

The Standards captured at the Battle of _Hyderabad_, on the 24th of
March, 1843, were of a similar rude description, and do not afford a
just idea of the Army which they may be supposed to have led on. No
person, on viewing these Trophies, would suppose the Beloochee Army,
to which they belonged, to have been composed of men so gallant and
so formidable; so well armed, and so expert in the use of their arms,
as the Scindian troops proved themselves in these battles.


  _Description of the Silver Medal struck in commemoration of the
  Victories of_ MEEANEE _and_ HYDERABAD, _and conferred on the
  Officers and Men engaged in those Battles._

On the obverse; the bust of HER MAJESTY, with the inscription
"VICTORIA REGINA."

On the reverse; the words "MEEANEE," "HYDERABAD," "1843," enclosed
within branches of Laurel, and surmounted by the Imperial Crown.


FOOTNOTES:

[6] Cape Breton had been captured by the British in 1745, but was
restored to the French at the peace of Aix-la-Chapelle in 1748. It
was retaken in 1758 (as above narrated), and was finally ceded to
Great Britain by the treaty of Fontainebleau, in 1763.

[7] The grenadier company of the TWENTY-SECOND regiment, which had
been incorporated with the "_Louisburg Grenadiers_," formed part of
the armament, and was engaged in the battle on the heights of Abraham
on the 13th of September, 1759.

[8] When the Marquis of Normanby (then Earl of Mulgrave) presented
the regiment with New Colours at Jamaica, he remarked, in reference
to the conduct of the regiment,--"I had myself the means of
knowing upon the many times I have been at Falmouth, whilst your
head-quarters were there, that the regiment was universally popular,
and their departure generally regretted. During the few pleasant days
I passed at Shuttlewood, in the camp of which the flank companies of
the TWENTY-SECOND regiment formed a part, I remember upon remarking
to the Major-General there commanding, the perfect good conduct of
all there, he said, 'Yes, I never knew better men.'"

[9] Lieutenant Thomas Chute succeeded to the vacancy caused by
the death of Captain Tew; Ensign Richard Pennefather was promoted
Lieutenant; and Serjeant-Major Thomas Stack was appointed ensign
in the TWENTY-SECOND regiment, the commissions being dated 18th
February, 1843, the day following the battle of Meeanee.

[10] The following interesting circumstance is recorded by
Major-General Napier, in his history of the conquest of Scinde,
respecting the march into the desert in pursuit of Meer Shere
Mahomed:--

"On one of those long marches, which were almost continual, the
Twenty-fifth Sepoys, being nearly maddened by thirst and heat,
saw one of their water-carriers approaching with full skins of
water; they rushed towards him in crowds, tearing away the skins
and struggling together, with loud cries of Water! Water! At that
moment, some half-dozen straggling soldiers of the TWENTY-SECOND
came up, apparently exhausted, and asked for some. At once the
generous Indians withheld their hands from the skins, forgot their
own sufferings, and gave the fainting Europeans to drink; then they
all moved on, the Sepoys carrying the TWENTY-SECOND men's muskets for
them, patting them on the shoulders, and encouraging them to hold
out. It was in vain; they did so for a short time, but soon fell.
It was then discovered that these noble fellows were all wounded,
some deeply, but thinking there was to be another fight, they had
concealed their hurts, and forced nature to sustain the loss of
blood, the pain of wounds, the burning sun, the long marches, and the
sandy desert, that their last moments might be given to their country
on another field of battle!"

  _Names of men of the_ TWENTY-SECOND _regiment who concealed their
  wounds, received in the Battle of Hyderabad, and marched with their
  regiment the next day, thinking another battle was at hand._

Serjeant Haney, John Durr, John Muldowney, Robert Young, Henry Lines,
Patrick Gill, James Andrews, Thomas Middleton, James Mulvey, and
Silvester Day.

[11] Lieutenant-Colonel Pennefather was appointed Aide-de-Camp to
the Queen, with the rank of Colonel, in 1846, the honor having been
deferred until this period in consequence of his short standing as
a Lieutenant-Colonel in 1843, the year in which the victories of
Meeanee and Hyderabad were gained.

Colonel Pennefather exchanged to the Twenty-eighth Regiment, with
Lieut.-Colonel S. J. Cotton, on the 2nd December, 1847, and becoming
supernumerary on the arrival of the Twenty-eighth regiment from India
in 1848, was placed on half-pay. In August, 1848, Colonel Pennefather
was appointed to serve on the Staff of the army in Ireland.




SUCCESSION OF COLONELS

OF

THE TWENTY-SECOND,

OR

THE CHESHIRE REGIMENT OF FOOT.


HENRY, DUKE OF NORFOLK, K.G.

_Appointed 16th March, 1689._

LORD HENRY HOWARD, son of Henry, Earl of Norwich, afterwards Duke of
Norfolk, was summoned to parliament in 1678, by the title of Lord
Mowbray: and on the death of Prince Rupert, in 1682, his lordship
was nominated governor and constable of Windsor Castle, and warden
of the forest of Windsor; also lord lieutenant of Berkshire and
Surrey. On the decease of his father, in 1684, he succeeded to the
dignity of DUKE OF NORFOLK, and of Earl Marshal of England; and in
May, 1685, he was elected a Knight of the most noble order of the
Garter. On the breaking out of the rebellion of the DUKE OF MONMOUTH,
the DUKE OF NORFOLK took great interest in raising a regiment of
foot for the service of King James II., now the twelfth regiment of
foot, of which he was appointed colonel. His Grace did not approve
of the measures of the court, and evinced a strong attachment to the
protestant religion. One day (says Bishop Burnet) the King gave the
DUKE OF NORFOLK the sword of state to carry with him to the Popish
chapel, which he carried as far as the door and then stopped, not
being willing to enter the chapel. The King said, "My Lord, your
father would have gone farther;" to which the Duke answered,--"Your
Majesty's father was the better man, and he would not have gone so
far." His Grace resigned his regiment, and joined in the invitation
to the PRINCE OF ORANGE. When the Prince landed, the DUKE OF NORFOLK
was in London, and was one of the Peers who petitioned the King for
a free parliament. He afterwards proceeded to his seat in Norfolk,
declared for the Prince of Orange, and brought that and some of the
neighbouring counties into the Prince's interest. On the elevation
of the Prince of Orange to the throne, his Graced was sworn a member
of the privy council; and afterwards used his interest and influence
in raising a corps of infantry, now the TWENTY-SECOND REGIMENT, of
which he was appointed colonel in March, 1689; but he resigned his
commission in the same year. He died on the 2nd of April 1701.


SIR HENRY BELLASIS, KT.

_Appointed 28th September, 1689._

SIR HENRY BELLASIS was educated in strict principles of loyalty and
attachment to monarchical government, and when a youth he suffered
in the royal cause during the usurpation of Cromwell. Soon after the
restoration he was nominated captain of an independent company in
garrison at Hull, of which fortress the Lord Bellasis (or Belasyse)
was appointed governor; but he resigned, in 1673, in consequence of
the Test Act, he being a Roman Catholic. In the summer of 1674, Sir
Henry Bellasis raised a company of musketeers and pikemen for the
service of the United Provinces of the Netherlands, and was engaged
at the siege of Grave in the autumn of that year. He also served
at the siege of Maestricht in 1676; at the battle of Mont-Cassel
in 1677; and in the following spring he succeeded Colonel Ashley
in the command of a regiment which is now the sixth foot. At the
battle of St. Denis, in 1678, he evinced signal valour and ability,
vying in feats of gallantry with his commanders the Prince of
Orange and the celebrated Earl of Ossory, and was wounded. During
the rebellion of the Duke of Monmouth, in 1685, he accompanied
his regiment to England; and in 1687 circumstances occurred which
occasioned him to withdraw from the Dutch service; but he preserved
his attachment to the Protestant interest and to the Prince of
Orange. In 1689 he succeeded the Duke of Norfolk in the colonelcy of
the TWENTY-SECOND regiment, with which corps he served in Ireland
under the veteran Duke Schomberg. He served as brigadier-general
under King William in 1690; was at the battle of the Boyne; and at
the siege of Limerick, where he again distinguished himself. In 1691
he acquired new honours at the siege of Athlone; he also displayed
bravery and judgment at the battle of Aghrim; and on the reduction
of Galway he was appointed governor of that fortress, and took
possession of the town on the 26th of July, with his own and two
other regiments of foot. The rank of major-general was conferred
on this distinguished officer in April, 1692, and he commanded a
brigade under King William in Flanders, in the autumn of that year.
He acquired additional reputation at the battle of Landen, in 1693;
also in the command of a brigade under King William during the
following campaign; and in October, 1694, his Majesty rewarded him
with the rank of lieut.-general. His meritorious conduct procured him
the favour and confidence of his Sovereign, by whom he was employed
on important services. He commanded the camp on the Bruges canal,
in May, 1695; and a division of the covering army was placed under
his orders during the siege of Namur. At the close of the campaign
he was appointed president of the general court-martial which tried
the officers who surrendered Dixmude and Deinse to the enemy, and
sentenced Major-General Ellemberg to be shot. He continued to serve
in the Netherlands until the peace of Ryswick. In 1701 he obtained
the colonelcy of the Queen Dowager's regiment (now second foot) in
exchange with Colonel Selwyn. In 1702 he was second in command of the
British troops in the expedition to Cadiz; and having been charged
with participating in the plunder of Port St. Mary, he was tried by
a court-martial and dismissed the service. His reputation was thus
unfortunately tarnished; but his crime does not appear to have been
considered of a heinous nature, as he was subsequently elected a
member of parliament for the city of Durham; was appointed by Queen
Anne, in 1711, one of the commissioners to inquire into several
particulars respecting the accounts of the army in Spain; and in
June, 1713, he was appointed governor of Berwick. He died on the 14th
of December, 1717.


WILLIAM SELWYN.

_Appointed 28th June, 1701._

WILLIAM SELWYN served in the army of the United Provinces of the
Netherlands, in the time of King Charles II., and afterwards held a
commission under the British crown. In 1688 he was nominated captain
and lieut.-colonel in the second foot guards, with which corps he
served in Flanders, and in 1691 King William gave him the colonelcy
of the second foot, vacant by the decease of Lieut.-General Kirke.
He served at the head of his regiment at the battle of Landen on
the 29th of July, 1693, and distinguished himself under the eye of
his sovereign; he also served at the siege of Namur, in the summer
of 1695, and was promoted to the rank of brigadier-general during
the siege. He subsequently commanded a brigade of infantry in the
Netherlands, under King William III., who nominated him governor of
the island of Jamaica. He exchanged to the TWENTY-SECOND regiment in
1701; and was promoted to the rank of major-general on the 10th June,
1702. He died in June, 1702.


THOMAS HANDASYD.

_Appointed 20th June, 1702._

After a progressive service in the subordinate commissions, THOMAS
HANDASYD was promoted to the lieut.-colonelcy of the TWENTY-SECOND
regiment, with which corps he proceeded to the island of Jamaica;
and in June, 1702, Queen Anne promoted him to the colonelcy of the
regiment. He served in the West Indies; was advanced to the rank of
brigadier-general in 1705, and to that of major-general in 1710. In
1712, he resigned the colonelcy of the TWENTY-SECOND regiment in
favour of his non.


ROGER HANDASYD.

_Appointed 3rd April, 1712._

This Officer served many years in the TWENTY-SECOND regiment, and was
promoted by Queen Anne to the lieut.-colonelcy of that corps, which
he commanded some time at the island of Jamaica. He succeeded his
father in the colonelcy of the regiment in 1712; was removed to the
sixteenth foot in 1730,--promoted to the rank of brigadier-general in
1735,--to that of major-general in 1739,--and to lieut.-general in
1743. He died in 1763.


WILLIAM BARRELL.

_Appointed 25th August, 1730._

This officer entered the army in the reign of William III.; he
obtained the rank of captain in 1698, and his distinguished conduct
in the wars of Queen Anne was rewarded with the brevet rank of
colonel on the 1st of January, 1707. In 1715 he was promoted to
the colonelcy of the Twenty-eighth foot; in 1727 he was appointed
brigadier-general; in 1730 he was removed to the TWENTY-SECOND
regiment, and in 1734 to the King's Own. In the following year
he was promoted to the rank of major-general; in 1739 to that of
lieut.-general; and he was also appointed governor of Pendennis
Castle. He died on the 9th of August, 1749.


THE HONORABLE JAMES ST. CLAIR.

_Appointed 30th October, 1734._

THE HONORABLE JAMES ST. CLAIR entered the army in the reign of Queen
Anne, and served under the celebrated JOHN DUKE OF MARLBOROUGH. He
was several years an officer in the third foot guards, in which
corps he rose to the commission of major, with the rank of colonel,
and in 1734 King George II. nominated him to the colonelcy of the
TWENTY-SECOND regiment, from which he was removed, in 1737, to the
first, the royal regiment. In 1739 he was promoted to the rank of
brigadier-general; in 1741 to that of major-general; and to that of
lieut.-general in 1745, at which time he was performing the duty of
quartermaster-general in the Netherlands, to the army commanded by
His Royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland. In the following year
he commanded an expedition which was originally designed for the
attack of the French settlements in Canada; but was countermanded,
and afterwards proceeded against the French seaport L'Orient and the
peninsula of Quiberon; no important results were, however, achieved.
He was subsequently employed on an embassy to the courts of Vienna
and Turin.[12] On the decease of his brother, in 1750, he became
entitled to the dignity of Lord Sinclair, a Scottish peerage; but he
preferred a seat in the House of Commons, of which he had been many
years a member, and therefore did not assume the title. In 1761 he
was promoted to the rank of general. He died at Dysart, in November,
1762.


JOHN MOYLE.

_Appointed 27th June, 1737._

JOHN MOYLE entered the army in the reign of Queen Anne, and served
with reputation under the celebrated John Duke of Marlborough; he
rose to the lieut.-colonelcy of a newly raised regiment of foot,
and in 1708 was promoted to the rank of colonel in the army. At the
peace of Utrecht his regiment was disbanded. In 1723 King George
I. conferred the colonelcy of the Thirty-sixth regiment on Colonel
Moyle, who was promoted to the rank of brigadier-general in 1727,
and to that of major-general in 1735; in 1737 he was removed to the
TWENTY-SECOND regiment. He died on the 3rd of November, 1738.


THOMAS PAGET.

_Appointed 13th December, 1738._

This officer entered the army in the reign of King William III.,
and was many years an officer of the eighth horse, now seventh
dragoon guards, with which corps he served under the celebrated John
Duke of Marlborough. On the 1st of August, 1710, he was promoted
to the lieut.-colonelcy of the eighth horse; he was afterwards
lieut.-colonel of the first troop of horse grenadier guards; and in
July, 1732, was nominated colonel of the Thirty-second regiment, from
which he was removed, in 1738, to the TWENTY-SECOND. In 1739 he was
promoted to the rank of brigadier-general. He died on the 28th of
May, 1741.


RICHARD O'FARRELL.

_Appointed 12th August, 1741._

RICHARD O'FARRELL was nominated ensign in a regiment of foot on
the 1st of May, 1692; and he served with reputation in the wars of
King William III. and of Queen Anne. On the 20th of December, 1722,
he was promoted to the lieut.-colonelcy of the ninth foot, and he
performed the duties of commanding officer to that corps many years,
with credit to himself and advantage to the service. On the decease
of Brigadier-General Paget, in 1741, King George II. rewarded the
long and faithful services of Lieut.-Colonel O'Farrell with the
colonelcy of the TWENTY-SECOND regiment. In 1746 Colonel O'Farrell
was promoted to the rank of brigadier-general, and in 1754 to that of
major-general. His decease occurred in 1757.


EDWARD WHITMORE.

_Appointed 11th July, 1757._

EDWARD WHITMORE entered the army in the reign of King George II., and
serving with distinction in the wars of the Austrian succession,
was promoted to the lieut.-colonelcy of the Thirty-sixth regiment
on the 17th of July, 1747. He performed the duty of commanding
officer of the Thirty-sixth regiment with reputation ten years;
and in July, 1757, King George II. rewarded him with the colonelcy
of the TWENTY-SECOND regiment. He was nominated brigadier-general
in America in December, 1757; in 1758 he commanded a brigade under
Lieut.-General (afterwards Lord) Amherst, in the descent on Cape
Breton, and at the siege and capture of Louisburg, of which fortress
he was afterwards nominated governor. On the 19th of February, 1761,
he was promoted to the rank of major-general. During the following
winter he left Louisburg for Boston; during the voyage the ship
was driven, by severe weather, into the harbour of Plymouth, and
Major-General Whitmore, being on deck, in the night, fell overboard
and was drowned.


THE HONORABLE THOMAS GAGE.

_Appointed 29th March, 1762._

THE HONORABLE THOMAS GAGE, second son of Thomas, first Viscount
Gage, of Castle Island, in Ireland, having served some time in the
subordinate commissions, was appointed major of the Forty-fourth
foot in February, 1747; and he was further promoted to the
lieut.-colonelcy of the regiment on the 2nd of March, 1751. He
was serving with his regiment in America, when a dispute occurred
between Great Britain and France respecting the territory on the
banks of the Ohio, and he commanded the advance-guard of the
forces sent against Fort Du Quesne, which the French had built to
command the entrance into the country on the Ohio and Mississippi.
In the disastrous action on the 9th of July, 1755, Major-General
Braddock was killed, and Lieut.-Colonel the Honorable Thomas Gage
was wounded. He continued to serve in America, where he raised a
provincial regiment, which was numbered the eightieth, light-armed
foot, of which he was appointed colonel in May, 1758; he was also
appointed brigadier-general in North America, and the efforts of the
army effected the conquest of Canada, which has continued to form
part of the British dominions from that period. He was promoted
to the rank of major-general in 1761, and in the same year he
performed the duty of Commander-in-Chief in North America, and also
succeeded Sir Jeffrey Amherst as Colonel-in-Chief of the sixtieth
regiment, which he held two months, when Lieut.-General Amherst
was re-appointed. In March, 1762, he was appointed colonel of the
TWENTY-SECOND foot; and in April, 1770, he was promoted to the rank
of lieut.-general. When the misunderstanding between Great Britain
and her North American colonies began to assume a serious aspect, he
was appointed Captain-General and Governor-in-Chief of Massachusetts
Bay, and he arrived at Boston in May, 1774. Hostilities commenced
in the following year, and his active exertions to suppress the
rebellion were rewarded in August, 1775, with the appointment of
Commander-in-Chief in North America, which he resigned in a few
months afterwards. In April, 1782, he was appointed colonel of the
seventeenth light dragoons; he was promoted to the rank of general
in November following, and in 1785 he was removed to the eleventh
dragoons. He died in 1787.


CHARLES O'HARA.

_Appointed 18th April, 1782._

CHARLES O'HARA was appointed cornet in the third dragoons in
December, 1752, and in 1756 he was promoted to lieutenant and
captain in the second foot guards. He served in Portugal in 1762,
and performed the duties of quartermaster-general to the army under
Lieut.-General the Earl of Loudoun. In 1769 he was promoted to the
rank of captain and lieut.-colonel; and he served with his regiment
in North America. In the autumn of 1781 he was promoted to the rank
of major-general. He commanded the brigade of foot guards under
Lieut.-General Earl Cornwallis, in Virginia; distinguished himself at
the passage of the Catawba river on the 1st of February, 1781; and
was wounded at the battle of Guildford on the 15th of March. In 1782
he was nominated to the colonelcy of the TWENTY-SECOND regiment; was
removed to the Seventy-fourth highlanders in 1791, and was advanced
to the rank of lieut.-general in 1793. He commanded the British
troops at Toulon, and was wounded and taken prisoner in an action
with the French republican troops on the 30th of November, 1793. His
services were rewarded with the appointment of governor of Gibraltar,
and in 1798 he was promoted to the rank of general. It is recorded
that he possessed a happy combination of talents; was a brave and
enterprising soldier, a strict disciplinarian, and a polite and
accomplished gentleman. He died at Gibraltar on the 21st of February,
1802.


DAVID DUNDAS.

_Appointed 2nd April, 1791._

DAVID DUNDAS was one of the most distinguished officers of the age
in which he lived, for his perfect knowledge of the principles of
military tactics. He commenced his military education at the age
of thirteen in the academy at Woolwich, and at fifteen he assisted
in a survey of Scotland; in 1756 he obtained a commission in the
Fifty-sixth regiment. In 1758 he proceeded with the expedition to
the coast of France as an assistant quartermaster-general; and in
the following year obtained the command of a troop in a newly raised
regiment of light dragoons (Eliott's light horse), now the fifteenth,
or King's hussars. He served with his regiment in Germany in 1760 and
1761; in the following summer he accompanied an expedition to Cuba,
as aide-de-camp to Major-General Eliott, and was actively employed in
the reduction of the Havannah. After the peace he resumed his post in
his regiment, in which he rose to the rank of major; and, urged by an
ardent desire to acquire a perfect knowledge of every branch of his
profession, he obtained permission to proceed to the Continent, to
observe the practice of the French and Austrian armies. In 1775 he
obtained the lieut.-colonelcy of the twelfth light dragoons, joined
the regiment in Ireland shortly afterwards, and in 1778 received the
appointment of quartermaster-general in that country. In 1782 he was
removed to the lieut.-colonelcy of the second Irish horse, now the
fifth dragoon guards. In 1785 he again proceeded to the Continent,
attended the exercises of the Prussian troops during three summers,
and after his return he presented His Majesty with a detailed account
of their evolutions.

Colonel Dundas, having become a proficient tactician, produced, in
1788, a highly useful work on the principles of military movements,
which became the basis of our army regulations for field exercises
and movements. His abilities obtained for him the favour and
attention of King George III., who appointed him adjutant-general
in Ireland, for the purpose of introducing his system of tactics
into the army of that country. In 1790 Colonel Dundas was promoted
to the rank of major-general. In 1791 he obtained the colonelcy of
the TWENTY-SECOND foot, and in the same year was placed on the Irish
staff, but he resigned that appointment in 1793 to engage in service
of actual warfare. After the commencement of hostilities with the
French republic, Major-General Dundas was employed on a military
mission to the island of Jersey, and was subsequently sent to the
Continent to confer with the Duke of York respecting the siege of
Dunkirk. From Flanders he proceeded to Toulon, where he commanded
under Lieut.-General O'Hara, and when the lieut.-general was taken
prisoner, he succeeded to the command of the garrison. His services
there, although he was ultimately obliged to evacuate the place,
called forth the approbation of his Sovereign and of the British
nation. After abandoning Toulon, he made a descent on Corsica, which
island was reduced and annexed to the British dominions; but shortly
afterwards he received directions to proceed to Flanders, where he
arrived in the spring of 1794, and commanded a brigade of cavalry
at the battle of Tournay on the 22nd of May, 1794. Major-General
Dundas was actively employed in the retreat through Holland, and the
corps under his immediate command gained considerable advantage over
the enemy in two successive actions near Gelder-Malsen; he highly
distinguished himself also in an attack upon the French post at
Thuyl, in December of the same year. He continued with the British
troops in Germany during the summer of 1795, and in December was
appointed colonel of the seventh light dragoons. After his return
to England he was appointed quartermaster-general to the army; and
he composed the celebrated regulations for the field exercises and
movements for the cavalry, which were approved by his Royal Highness
the Duke of York, and by King George III., and ordered to be
exclusively adopted throughout the cavalry.

In 1799 Lieut.-General Dundas commanded a division of the allied
army under the Duke of York, in the expedition to Holland; he
distinguished himself in several actions with the enemy, and was
highly commended by His Royal Highness in his public despatches. In
1801 he was appointed colonel of the second, or Royal North British
dragoons, and was constituted governor of Fort George. In 1802 he was
promoted to the rank of general; and in the following year, when the
French were preparing to invade England, he was placed in command of
the troops in the southern district, which comprised the counties
of Kent and Sussex. In 1804 he was appointed governor of the Royal
Hospital at Chelsea, and created a Knight of the Bath. On the 18th of
March, 1809, His Majesty was pleased to confer on this distinguished
veteran the appointment of Commander-in-Chief of the army, on the
resignation of Field-Marshal His Royal Highness the Duke of York,
which appointment he held until the 25th of May, 1811, when His Royal
Highness was re-appointed. He was also appointed colonel-in-chief of
the rifle brigade on the 31st of August, 1809. He was promoted to the
colonelcy of the King's dragoon guards on the 27th of January, 1813.
He died in 1820, after a distinguished service of upwards of sixty
years.


WILLIAM CROSBIE.

_Appointed 23rd December, 1795._

After serving in the subordinate commissions, WILLIAM CROSBIE was
nominated captain of a company in the Twenty-eighth regiment, on
the 9th of May, 1769; and in October, 1778, he was promoted to the
majority of the seventh Royal Fusiliers, with which corps he served
in the Carolinas; in April, 1781, he obtained the lieut.-colonelcy
of the TWENTY-SECOND regiment. While stationed at Windsor in 1785,
he obtained the permission of King George III. for the introduction
of an order of merit in the corps, which under his command obtained
a high reputation for correct discipline. He was promoted to the
rank of colonel in 1790; and in 1793 received a letter of service for
raising the Eighty-ninth regiment, of which he was appointed colonel.
In 1794 he was advanced to the rank of major-general, and was removed
to the TWENTY-SECOND regiment in 1795. He died on the 16th of June,
1798, at Portsmouth, of which fortress he was lieut.-governor at the
time of his decease.


JOHN GRAVES SIMCOE.

_Appointed 18th June, 1798._

JOHN GRAVES SIMCOE, son of Captain Simcoe of the Royal Navy, evinced
great talent from his youth. It is recorded that, when a boy, he was
taken prisoner at sea, and conveyed up the river St. Lawrence, to
Quebec; and he constructed a chart of the river, which was given to
Major-General Wolfe, who sailed with an expedition against Quebec,
in 1759. On the 27th of April, 1770, he was appointed ensign in the
Thirty-fifth regiment, with which corps he served at Boston, in
1775; he was appointed captain in the fortieth regiment in December,
1775, and served at Long Island and New York in 1776, and in the
expedition to Pennsylvania in 1777, when he distinguished himself at
the battle of Brandywine, and was wounded. In October of the same
year, he was placed at the head of a provincial corps, called "The
Queen's Rangers," with the rank of major-commandant, and was promoted
to the rank of lieut.-colonel in 1778. His services with this corps
are spoken of by Lieut.-General Sir Henry Clinton, in a letter to
Lord George Germaine, in the following terms:--"Lieut.-Colonel Simcoe
has been at the head of a battalion since October, 1777, and since
that time he has been perpetually with the advance of the army.
The history of the corps under his command is a series of gallant,
skilful, and successful enterprises against the enemy, without a
single reverse. The Queen's Rangers have killed, or taken, twice
their own numbers. Colonel Simcoe himself has been thrice wounded;
and I do not scruple to assert, that his successes have been no less
the fruit of the most extensive knowledge of his profession which
study and the experience within his reach could give him, than of
the most watchful attention and shining courage." After repeatedly
distinguishing himself in North and South Carolina, and Virginia,
he was included in the capitulation of York Town, and returned to
England in a state of debility from excessive exertion, &c. In 1790
he was promoted to the rank of colonel, and in the following year
raised a corps of infantry called the Queen's Rangers, of which he
was appointed colonel on the 1st of September, 1791. He subsequently
proceeded to the West Indies, where he evinced the same talent,
energy, and courage which shone so conspicuously in the American war.
In 1794 he was promoted to the rank of major-general, and in 1796 to
the local rank of lieut.-general in the island of St. Domingo. In
January, 1798, he was appointed Colonel of the Eighty-first regiment,
and was removed, in June following, to the TWENTY-SECOND regiment,
the colonelcy of which corps he retained until his decease in 1806.


SIR JAMES H. CRAIG, K.B.

_Appointed 30th October, 1806._

JAMES HENRY CRAIG was appointed ensign in the thirtieth foot, in
1763, and served with his regiment at Gibraltar; in 1771 he was
promoted to captain in the Forty-seventh regiment, with which
corps he served several campaigns in America; and in 1777 he was
promoted to the majority, and in 1781 to the lieut.-colonelcy, of
the Eighty-second regiment, from which he was removed, in 1783, to
the sixteenth. He was promoted to the rank of colonel in 1790, and
to that of major-general in 1794; in 1795 he was nominated to the
colonelcy of the Forty-sixth regiment: he was advanced to the rank of
lieut.-general in 1801, and removed to the Eighty-sixth in 1804. He
commanded an expedition to the Mediterranean, in 1805, with the local
rank of general, and the dignity of a knight of the Bath; the troops
under his orders landed at Naples, and subsequently took possession
of the island of Sicily. In 1806 he was removed to the TWENTY-SECOND
regiment; and in 1807 he was appointed governor of Upper and Lower
Canada, with the local rank of general in America; in 1809 he was
removed to the Seventy-eighth Highlanders. He was also appointed
governor of Blackness Castle. He died on the 12th of January, 1812.


THE HONORABLE EDWARD FINCH.

_Appointed 18th September, 1809._

In 1778 the HONORABLE EDWARD FINCH was appointed cornet in the
eleventh light dragoons, and in 1779 he was promoted to a lieutenancy
in the Eighty-seventh foot. He embarked for the West Indies, in
January, 1780, and served there, and in North America, until 1782,
when he returned to England, and was appointed lieutenant and captain
in the second foot guards; in 1792 he was promoted to captain
and lieut.-colonel in the same corps. He served the campaigns of
1793 and 1794, in Flanders, under His Royal Highness the Duke of
York, and shared in the several actions in which the foot guards
distinguished themselves. In 1796 he was promoted to the rank of
colonel, and in 1799 he commanded the first battalion of his regiment
in the expedition to Holland, where he served in several actions
under Lieut.-General Sir Ralph Abercromby and His Royal Highness
the Duke of York. He commanded the brigade of light cavalry in the
expedition to Egypt, in 1800, with the rank of brigadier-general, and
was promoted to the rank of major-general, in January, 1801. After
commanding the light cavalry in Egypt some time, he was placed at
the head of a brigade of infantry, and was honored with the Order of
the Crescent from the Grand Seignior. He commanded a brigade of foot
guards in the expedition to Hanover in 1805; and in 1807 he commanded
a brigade at the capture of Copenhagen. In 1808 he was promoted to
the rank of lieut.-general, and appointed colonel of the Fifty-fourth
regiment, and in 1809 he was removed to the TWENTY-SECOND. He was
promoted to the rank of general in 1819. His decease occurred on the
27th of October, 1843.


SIR CHARLES JAMES NAPIER, G.C.B.

_Appointed 21st November, 1843._

The following Regimental Order was issued by Major-General Sir
Charles Napier, upon his appointment by Her Majesty to the Colonelcy
of the TWENTY-SECOND Regiment.

  "TWENTY-SECOND!

  Her Majesty has been graciously pleased to place me at your head,
  and I shall end my military career wearing the uniform of the
  Regiment. Your Glory must be my Glory, and well I know it will
  increase, when you have again an opportunity to use your Arms!
  Never were the Musket and Bayonet wielded by stronger men, nor
  were the Royal Colours of England ever confided to more intrepid
  Soldiers!

  "Many General Officers have been made Colonels of Regiments that
  they had formerly commanded, and with whose glory their own fame
  is associated; but old Comrades have passed away,--to the new men,
  they are strangers,--and nought remains to bind them to their
  Regiments, but Memory and Renown! My good fortune has been greater,
  for while I rejoice in the past and present honors of my old Corps,
  the Fiftieth Regiment, I am, as Colonel of the TWENTY-SECOND,
  placed among men at whose head I have so lately fought, and to
  whose valour I owe so much!!

  "Soldiers, we are not men without feeling as _pseudo_ Philosophers
  pretend! Obedience, Discipline, War, they deprive us not of Manly
  sentiments. I shall always have the strongest attachment to the
  corps with whom I have served, and among the honors won for me by
  the Army of Scinde, the greatest is that of being your Colonel!!

  (Signed)      "C. J. NAPIER, _Major-General_,
  "_Colonel 22nd Regiment_.

  "_Kurrachee, 23rd January, 1844._"

The following Postscript to the Official letter to Major-General
Sir Charles Napier, announcing his appointment as Colonel of
the TWENTY-SECOND Regiment, was in the _Duke of Wellington's own
hand-writing_:--

  "P.S. I recommended this arrangement to Her Majesty, principally
  on the ground that it would be satisfactory to you, as this was
  the only one of Her Majesty's Regiments in India engaged in the
  two glorious battles fought at _Meeanee_ and _Hyderabad_, in
  _Scinde_; and Her Majesty was graciously pleased to approve of the
  recommendation on that ground."


  LONDON:
  Printed by WILLIAM CLOWES and SONS, Stamford Street,
  For Her Majesty's Stationery Office.


FOOTNOTE:

[12] David Hume, the historian, was secretary to General St. Clair,
during the expedition to the coast of France, and the embassy to
Vienna and Turin.




  TRANSCRIBER'S NOTE

  Obvious typographical errors and punctuation errors have been
  corrected after careful comparison with other occurrences within
  the text and consultation of external sources.

  Except for those changes noted below, all misspellings in the text,
  and inconsistent or archaic usage, have been retained.

  Pg xxix: 'thence to Portmouth' replaced by 'thence to Portsmouth'.
  Pg 34: 'a deperate dash' replaced by 'a desperate dash'.
  Pg 41: 'stanch and true' replaced by 'staunch and true'.
  Pg 45: 'until its recal' replaced by 'until its recall'.
  Pg 52: 'Anne to that' replaced by 'Anne to the'.
  Pg 59: '27th of Januuary' replaced by '27th of January'.


*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HISTORICAL RECORD OF THE
TWENTY-SECOND, OR THE CHESHIRE REGIMENT OF FOOT ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
